Title: Philip Guston
Date: Until 25 February 2024
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: For over 50 years, artist Philip Guston restlessly made paintings and drawings that captured the anxious and turbulent world he was witnessing.Born in Canada to a Jewish immigrant family, he grew up in the US and eventually became one of the most celebrated abstract painters of the 1950s and 1960s, alongside Mark Rothko and his childhood friend Jackson Pollock.His early work included murals and paintings addressing racism in America and wars abroad. During the social and political upheavals of the late 1960s, Guston grew critical of abstraction, and began producing large-scale paintings that feature comic-like figures, some in white hoods representing evil and the everyday perpetrators of racism. These paintings and those that followed established Guston as one of the most influential painters of the late 20th century.Guston was a complex artist who took inspiration from the nightmarish world around him to create new and surprising imagery. This exhibition explores how his paintings bridged the personal and the political, the abstract and the figurative, the humorous and the tragic.Philip Guston is the first major retrospective on the artist in the UK in nearly 20 years.The exhibition is co-organised by Tate Modern, the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the National Gallery of Art, Washington, and the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/philip-guston
Title: Future Forecast
Date: Dailyuntil 10 March 2024
Location: Tate Liverpool + RIBA North
Intro: Produced by a group of young people from Toxteth called the Greenhouse Project Young Event Producers, this 24-minute film is an imagined vision of the future, where extreme weather conditions have changed the landscape of Liverpool, and the rest of the world. See how they predict what the future might look and sound like.The Greenhouse Project Young Event Producers worked with Turner Prize-winning artist Mark Leckey, composer and sound producer Silv-o and artists Roy Claire Potter and Kim Coleman.This work was first shown at our Late at Tate Liverpool: Fast Forward in September.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-liverpool/future-forecast
Title: Relaxed Hours: Women in Revolt!
Date: 21 February 2024 at 10.00–11.0020 March 2024 at 10.00–11.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Join us on these relaxed mornings to enjoy a gallery environment with limited numbers of people.These events are open to anyone who is disabled or neurodivergent and any other visitors with sensory needs who prefer a more relaxed experience, plus their families, friends and carers.Resources will be available on the day including:Access StationEar defendersA quiet breakout spaceTate staff will be aware that this is an access hour and will take that into consideration as they look after you and the artwork.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-in-revolt/relaxed-hours
Title: Women In Revolt!
Art and Activism in the UK 1970-1990
Date: Until 7 April 2024
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: The first of its kind, this exhibition is a wide-ranging exploration of feminist art by over 100 women artists working in the UK. It shines a spotlight on how networks of women used radical ideas and rebellious methods to make an invaluable contribution to British culture. Their art helped fuel the women’s liberation movement during a period of significant social, economic and political change.In the 1970s and 1980s a new wave of feminism erupted. Women used their lived experiences to create art, from painting and photography to film and performance, to fight against injustice. This included taking a stand for reproductive rights, equal pay and race equality. This creativity helped shape a period of pivotal change for women in Britain, including the opening of the first women's refuge and the formation of the British Black Arts Movement.Despite long careers, these artists were often left out of the artistic narratives of the time. This will be the first time many of their works have been on display since the 1970s.Through their urgent and powerful art visitors will encounter a productive, politically engaged set of communities, who changed the face of British culture and paved the way for future generations of artists.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-in-revolt
Title: Hyundai Commission
El Anatsui: Behind the Red Moon
Date: Until 14 April 2024
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: El Anatsui’s Behind the Red Moon is a monumental sculptural installation made of thousands of metal bottle tops and fragments. Crumpling, crushing, and stitching them into different compositions, large panels are pieced together to form massive abstract fields of colour, shape and line. The commission builds on Anatsui’s interest in histories of encounter and the migration of goods and people during the transatlantic slave trade. Sourced in Nigeria, the liquor bottle tops used in this commission form part of a present-day industry built on colonial trade routes.  Behind the Red Moon is staged as an artwork in three acts. Visitors are invited to embark on a journey of movement and interaction through the hangings, a dance between bodies and sculptures.Viewing the hangings from afar, a landscape of symbols is revealed: the moon, the sail, the wave, the earth, and the wall. Up close, the bottle tops’ logos speak to the material’s social lives as commodities of a global industry built on colonial trade routes. Together, the past and present of Africa and Europe merge into sculptural forms that hang in the air and appear to float across the space. The hangings embody Anatsui’s idea of the ‘non-fixed form’, and are part of his highly experimental approach to sculpture.Anatsui engages with the poetic possibilities of his materials. ‘Each material has its properties, physical and even spiritual,’ he explains. Behind the Red Moon explores elemental forces interwoven with human histories of power, oppression, dispersion and survival.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/el-anatsui
Title: Turner Prize 2023
Date: Until 14 April 2024
Location: Towner Eastbourne
Intro: The 2023 Turner Prize will be hosted by Towner Eastbourne as the centrepiece of the gallery’s centenary programme.The prize is awarded to a British artist for an outstanding exhibition or other presentation of their work in the preceding year as determined by a jury.The four shortlisted artists for the Turner Prize 2023 are:Jesse DarlingGhislaine LeungRory PilgrimBarbara WalkerFind out more in the Turner Prize 2023 press release.The exhibition of Turner Prize’s four shortlisted artists will be presented from 28 September 2023 to 14 April 2024.It was announced in December 2023 that Jesse Darling was the winner of the Turner Prize 2023.Turner Prize 2023 is part of ‘Towner 100’ – the gallery’s year-long centenary celebration of arts and culture across Eastbourne. With support from Eastbourne Borough Council and East Sussex County Council, the Turner Prize will bring immersive cultural and social experiences for visitors and residents of the popular seaside destination.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/towner-eastbourne/turner-prize-2023
Title: Capturing The Moment
Date: Until 28 April 2024
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: The arrival of photography changed the course of painting forever. In this unique exhibition, we explore the dynamic relationship between the two mediums through some of the most iconic artworks of recent times.From the expressive paintings of Pablo Picasso and Paula Rego, to striking photographs by Hiroshi Sugimoto and Jeff Wall, you will see how these two distinct mediums have shaped each other over time.You will also discover how artists have blurred the boundaries between painting and photography, creating new and exciting forms of art, such as Pauline Boty's pop paintings, Andy Warhol’s silkscreen prints, the photorealist works of Gerhard Richter, or Andreas Gursky's large-scale panoramic photographs.In an open-ended conversation between some of the greatest painters and photographers of the modern era, we explore how the brush and the lens have been used to capture moments in time.This exhibition is realised in collaboration with the YAGEO Foundation, Taiwan. The YAGEO Foundation was founded by Taiwanese collector, entrepreneur and philanthropist Pierre Chen in 1999.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/capturing-the-moment
Title: Yayoi Kusama: Infinity Mirror Rooms
Date: Until 28 April 2024
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Tate presents a rare chance to experience two of Yayoi Kusama’s Infinity Mirror Rooms. These immersive installations will transport you into Kusama’s unique vision of endless reflections.Infinity Mirrored Room – Filled with the Brilliance of Life is one of Kusama’s largest installations to date and was made for her 2012 retrospective at Tate Modern. It is shown alongside Chandelier of Grief, a room which creates the illusion of a boundless universe of rotating crystal chandeliers.A small presentation of photographs and moving image – some on display for the first time – provides historical context for the global phenomenon that Kusama’s mirrored rooms have become today.Born in 1929 in Matsumoto, Japan, Kusama came to international attention in 1960s New York for a wide-ranging creative practice that has encompassed installation, painting, sculpture, fashion design and writing. Since the 1970s she has lived in Tokyo, where she continues to work prolifically and to international acclaim.Yayoi Kusama: Infinity Mirror Rooms is presented in The George Economou Gallery.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/yayoi-kusama-infinity-mirror-rooms
Title: ARTIST ROOMS
Vija Celmins
Date: Until 4 May 2024
Location: Hatton Gallery
Intro: ARTIST ROOMS Vija Celmins takes an in-depth look at the artist’s works on paper. Celmins produces exquisitely intricate drawings and prints of natural phenomena, based upon close observation of photographs, her delicate-seeming work addresses subjects that are both powerful and timeless.This exhibition includes unique graphite, charcoal and eraser drawings such as Untitled (Desert-Galaxy) 1974 and Web #1 1999, as well as prints which employ intaglio, lithographic and relief processes.Hatton Gallery based at Newcastle University has been at the heart of cultural life in the North East since the early 20th century. Founded in 1925, today it is a modern exhibition space with inclusive programming and home to the Hatton’s diverse collection with over 3,000 works from the 14th – 20th centuries.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/hatton-gallery/vija-celmins
Title: Outi Pieski
Date: Until 6 May 2024
Location: Tate St Ives
Intro: Outi Pieski is a Sámi visual artist based in Ohcejohka (Utsjoki), Finland. This will be her first large-scale exhibition in the UK.Pieski's paintings and installations explore several themes, including the culture and identity of the Sámi people – who live in the region of Sápmi, which now includes the northern part of Scandinavia and Kola peninsula in Russia.In many of her projects, she incorporates duodji (the traditional craft practices of the Sámi people) using materials such as wood and textile. For Pieski, duodji is also a way of revitalising connections between past and future generations.Through this thought-provoking show, Pieski raises important questions around ancestral return, indigenous people’s rights, and the relationship between humans, animals and nature.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-st-ives/outi-pieski
Title: Art Explora Mobile Museum 2024
Date: 23 February  – 11 May 2024
Location: Multiple locations
Intro: The Mobile Museum, a collaboration with Art Explora, Tate and MuMo, starts its second tour of the UK by bringing art to school children and young people, community groups, care home residents and adults from all backgrounds across the Midlands and the North.The Mobile Museum first toured across the Liverpool City Region, including St Helens, Knowsley, Sefton, Wirral and Halton in 2023. It showed a version of the Tate Liverpool exhibition Radical Landscapes.This time the Mobile Museum is travelling to the Midlands and the North to share a specially curated exhibition Soup, Socks and Spiders! Art of the Everyday, an exploration of the ‘still life’ genre. The exhibition brings together contemporary and historic works of art from the Tate national collection that present everyday objects in unexpected ways. The Mobile Museum presents artworks by artists including Vanessa Bell, Damien Hirst, David Hockney, Nam June Paik, Cornelia Parker and Wolfgang Tillmans.The tour will bring works from Tate’s collection directly to communities across the Midlands and the North. Public tours and workshops will be available. To find out more, visit the Art Explora website.Art Explora, in collaboration with Tate and MuMo, is touring works of art from the Tate Collection directly to communities in Nuneaton, Walsall, Ashfield, Wigan, Rotherham, Stoke-on-Trent, Tarporley and Runcorn for the first time. MuMo was founded by Ingrid Brochard, designed by matali crasset, with the support of the Fondation Daniel et Nina Carasso. This project is supported by Art Explora.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/multiple-locations/art-explora-mobile-museum-2024
Title: Bob and Roberta Smith: Thamesmead Codex
Date: Until May 2024
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: From 2019–2020, artist Bob and Roberta Smith interviewed people who live in Thamesmead, southeast London. Built in 1968 to alleviate London’s housing shortage, Thamesmead was one of many modernist large-scale housing projects constructed across Europe after the Second World War. Smith talked to a number of local residents, from some of its very first occupants to young people growing up during the Covid-19 pandemic. He then turned their conversations into the 24 painted placards you can see here. Reflecting on the work, Smith said ‘I thought I was making a painting about a housing estate, but actually I’ve been painting about the desire to be heard.’‘Codex’, from the title Thamesmead Codex, is an ancient term for a manuscript or book. Here, the artist presents a modern-day version. The work documents the histories and identities of Thamesmead and its communities. It records memories from the past, and hopes for a post-Covid future. Alongside this record of people’s thoughts and experiences, Smith includes vivid and futuristic landscape scenes much like illustrated pages of a codex.Bob and Roberta Smith (whose real name is Patrick Brill) brings together sign writing, activism and discarded materials. Talking about his practice, he says he sees ‘art as an important element in democratic life.’
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/bob-and-roberta-smith-thamesmead-codex
Title: ARTIST ROOMS
Bill Viola
Date: Until 2 June 2024
Location: Royal Albert Memorial Museum & Art Gallery
Intro: ARTIST ROOMS Bill Viola presents three works from the ‘Passions’, a series of video works created between 2000 and 2002 that explore human emotions. They are inspired in large part by Viola’s study of European religious paintings of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance.Bill Viola (b. 1951) is an American artist, internationally recognised as having been instrumental in the establishment of video as a vital form of contemporary art. His works focus on universal human experiences and is renowned for its precision and simplicity while fusing the influences of painting, photography and cinema.Royal Albert Memorial Museum & Art Gallery (RAMM) is a museum and art gallery in the city of Exeter, Devon. It offers a rich programme of exhibitions and displays and has been a place of discovery for local communities ever since the museum first opened in 1868.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/royal-albert-memorial-museum-art-gallery/bill-viola
Title: Art Now
Zeinab Saleh
Date: Until 23 June 2024
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Zeinab Saleh uses acrylic paint, charcoal and soft pastels to create a new series of paintings and drawings for her Art Now display at Tate Britain. Inspired by everyday experiences, personal encounters and memories, Saleh’s materials and palette allow her to make artworks that evoke feelings of intimacy and tenderness without being fixed in any specific time or narrative. Inviting calm and contemplation, the viewer is immersed in the space within the image. Saleh uses recurring patterns and silhouettes to project layers of time and meaning onto her canvases. She alludes to narratives but rarely are they fully disclosed.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/zeinab-saleh
Title: Sargent and Fashion
Date: Until 7 July 2024
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Celebrated for his striking portrait paintings, this exhibition sheds new light on John Singer Sargent’s acclaimed works. It explores how he worked like a stylist to craft the image of the sitters he painted, who he often had close relationships with.Sargent used fashion as a powerful tool to express identity and personality. He regularly chose the outfits of his collaborators or manipulated their clothing. This innovative use of costume was central to his artwork – for example, tugging a heavy coat tighter around a man to emphasise his figure or letting a dress strap sensuously slip from a woman’s shoulder. It was these daring sartorial choices that allowed him to express his vision as an artist.Almost 60 of Sargent’s paintings will be on display, including major portraits that rarely travel. Several period garments will also be showcased alongside the portraits they were worn in. The show examines how this remarkable painter used fashion to create portraits of the time, which still captivate today.Lead support with a generous donation from the Blavatnik Family Foundation. Additional support from the Sargent and Fashion Exhibition Supporters Circle and Tate Americas Foundation.Organised by Tate Britain and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Both MFA Boston and Tate Britain received generous support for international scholarly convenings and for the exhibition from the Terra Foundation for American Art
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/sargent-and-fashion
Title: You Get a Car [Everybody Gets a Car]: RESOLVE Collective
Date: 9 February – 14 July 2024
Location: Tate Liverpool + RIBA North
Intro: Explore interactive installations created by RESOLVE Collective in Tate Liverpool + RIBA North.RESOLVE has been working with communities across Liverpool to redistribute and re-use material from Tate Liverpool's site on the Albert Dock. Their work aims to create a sustainable legacy of redistribution in Liverpool which has a positive, long-term impact for the climate and creative aims of community organisations across Liverpool.You'll also see a series of films following the collective's work with the community organisations across Liverpool.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-liverpool/you-get-a-car-everybody-gets-a-car-resolve-collective
Title: Tate Britain Commission
Alvaro Barrington
Date: 29th May 2024  – 10th November 2024
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Alvaro Barrington will be the next artist to create a new installation for the Tate Britain Commission.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/alvaro-barrington
Title: Yoko Ono
Music of the Mind
Date: Until 1 September 2024
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Yoko Ono is a trailblazer of early conceptual and participatory art, film and performance, a celebrated musician, and a formidable campaigner for world peace. Developing her practice in the United States, Japan and the UK, ideas are central to her art, often expressed in poetic, humorous, profound and radical ways.Spanning more than seven decades, YOKO ONO: MUSIC OF THE MIND is the UK’s largest exhibition celebrating key moments in Ono’s groundbreaking, influential and multidisciplinary career, from the mid-1950s to now – including her years in London where she met her future husband and longtime collaborator John Lennon.The show traces the development of her practice and explores some of Ono’s most talked about and powerful artworks and performances. This includes Cut Piece (1964), where people were invited to cut off her clothing, to her banned Film No.4 (Bottoms) (1966-67) which she created as a ‘petition for peace’. Visitors are invited to take part in both simple acts of the imagination and active encounters with Ono’s works, such as Wish Trees for London, where visitors can contribute personal wishes for peace.Audiences will discover over 200 works including instruction pieces, scores, installations, films, music and photography. The exhibition reveals a groundbreaking approach to language, art and participation that continues to speak to the present moment.Supported by John J. Studzinski CBEThe exhibition is organised by Tate Modern, London in collaboration with Kunstsammlung Nordrhein-Westfalen, Düsseldorf
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/yoko-ono
Title: Beatriz Milhazes: Maresias
Date: 25 May – 29 September 2024
Location: Tate St Ives
Intro: Tate St Ives presents a retrospective of the work of artist Beatriz Milhazes, who is known for intensely colourful, large-scale abstract canvases. The exhibition Beatriz Milhazes: Maresias traces the evolution of her artistic approach over the past four decades.Beatriz Milhazes (born 1960, Rio de Janeiro) rose to prominence in the 1980s as a leading figure of the Geração Oitenta (1980s Generation), a pivotal Brazilian art movement that saw a return to painting as a dynamic medium for artistic expression, moving away from the conceptual art of the previous decade.Milhazes is influenced by multiple sources including Brazilian and European modernism, Catholic iconography, Baroque colonial architecture, and the vernacular culture and heritage of Brazil.Adapting the concept of collage to painting, Milhazes creates exuberant, densely layered works. In 1989 she developed her distinctive ‘monotransfer’ technique in which she paints her own motifs onto plastic sheeting before transposing them onto canvas. This process offers the possibility to retain the fidelity of the colours and intensify the effects of fluorescent and metallic pigments. It also allows Milhazes to create a smooth and defiant surface without losing the painterly quality.In Portuguese, Maresias refers to the salty sea breeze that is part of Milhazes’ everyday life in the coastal city of Rio de Janeiro, where she lives and works. Nature is an enduring and increasingly important theme, and she finds inspiration in the landscapes around her studio, as well as in the forms and structures of the natural world.Organised by and originated at Turner Contemporary, Margate, and adapted for presentation at Tate St Ives.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-st-ives/beatriz-milhazes-maresias
Title: Now You see Us
Women Artists in Britain 1520-1920
Date: 16 May – 13 October 2024
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Spanning 400 years, this exhibition follows women on their journeys to becoming professional artists. From Tudor times to the First World War, artists such as Mary Beale, Angelica Kauffman, Elizabeth Butler and Laura Knight paved a new artistic path for generations of women. They challenged what it meant to be a working woman of the time by going against society’s expectations – having commercial careers as artists and taking part in public exhibitions.Including over 150 works, the show dismantles stereotypes surrounding women artists in history, who were often thought of as amateurs. Determined to succeed and refusing to be boxed in, they daringly painted what were usually thought to be subjects for male artists: history pieces, battle scenes and the nude.The exhibition sheds light on how these artists championed equal access to art training and academy membership, breaking boundaries and overcoming many obstacles to establish what it meant to be a woman in the art world.In partnership with Lockton
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-artists-in-britain-1520-1920
Title: Expressionists
Kandinsky, Münter and The Blue Rider
Date: 25 April – 20 October 2024
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Explore the groundbreaking work of a circle of friends and close collaborators known as The Blue Rider. In the early 20th century they came together to form, in their own words, ‘a union of various countries to serve one purpose’ – to transform modern art. The artists rallied around Wassily Kandinsky and Gabriele Münter to experiment with colour, sound and light, creating bold and vibrant art.Expressionists is a story of friendships told through art. It examines the highly individual creatives that made up The Blue Rider, from Franz Marc’s interest in colour to Alexander Sacharoff’s freestyle performance. The women artists played a central role in the movement. Discover experimental photographs by Gabriele Münter alongside the dramatic paintings of Marianne Werefkin.Experience a collection of masterpieces from paintings, sculpture, and photography to performance and sound. This landmark exhibition is possible due to a collaboration with Lenbachhaus, Munich, who have offered Tate unprecedented access to their collection. It features over 130 works – brought together in the UK for the first time in over 60 years.Supported by the Huo Family Foundation. Presented in the Eyal Ofer Galleries.Organised by Tate Modern in collaboration with Lenbachhaus, Munich
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/expressionists
Title: Zanele Muholi
Date: 6 June 2024 – 26 January 2025
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Zanele Muholi is one of the most acclaimed photographers working today, and their work has been exhibited all over the world. With over 260 photographs, this exhibition presents the full breadth of their career to date.Muholi describes themself as a visual activist. From the early 2000s, they have documented and celebrated the lives of South Africa’s Black lesbian, gay, trans, queer and intersex communities.In the early series Only Half the Picture, Muholi captures moments of love and intimacy as well as intense images alluding to traumatic events – despite the equality promised by South Africa’s 1996 constitution, its LGBTQIA+ community remains a target for violence and prejudice.In Faces and Phases each participant looks directly at the camera, challenging the viewer to hold their gaze. These images and the accompanying testimonies form a growing archive of a community of people who are risking their lives by living authentically in the face of oppression and discrimination.Other key series of works, include Brave Beauties, which celebrates empowered non-binary people and trans women, many of whom have won Miss Gay Beauty pageants, and Being, a series of tender images of couples which challenge stereotypes and taboos.Muholi turns the camera on themself in the ongoing series Somnyama Ngonyama – translated as ‘Hail the Dark Lioness’. These powerful and reflective images explore themes including labour, racism, Eurocentrism and sexual politics.​The exhibition is based on the artist’s 2020-21 exhibition at Tate Modern and will include new works produced since then.The Huo Family FoundationResearch supported by Hyundai Tate Research Centre: Transnational.The exhibition in 2020 was supported by the Zanele Muholi Exhibition Supporters Circle, Tate Patrons and Tate Members
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/zanele-muholi
Title: Turner Prize 2024
Date: 25 September 2024 – 16 February 2025
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: The Turner Prize will return to Tate Britain to mark the 40th anniversary of the prize.The shortlisted artists for the 2024 exhibition will be announced in the spring, chosen by a jury comprising Rosie Cooper, Director of Wysing Arts Centre; Ekow Eshun, writer, broadcaster and curator; Sam Thorne, Director General and CEO at Japan House London; and Lydia Yee, curator and art historian.Supported by The John Browne Charitable TrustThe Uggla Family Foundationand Tate Americas Foundation
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/turner-prize-2024
Title: Mike Kelley
Ghost and Spirit
Date: 2 October 2024 – 9 March 2025
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Discover the elaborate, provocative and imaginary worlds created by experimental artist Mike Kelley.From the late 1970s to 2012, Kelley made a diverse body of work using drawing, collage, performance, found objects, and video.Spanning Kelley’s entire career, the exhibition features his breakthrough 'craft' sculptures made from textile and plush toys through to his multi-media installations such as Day Is Done.Drawing on references from popular and underground culture, literature, and philosophy, Kelley explores how the roles we play in society are entangled with historical fact and imaginary characters from the films and images we consume.Over a decade since his passing, Kelley’s reflections on identity and memory continue to resonate.Organised by Tate Modern in collaboration with Bourse de Commerce, Paris, K21, Kunstsammlung Nordrhein-Westfalen, Dusseldorf and Moderna Museet, Stockholm
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/mike-kelley-ghost-and-spirit
Title: Hyundai Commission
Mire Lee
Date: 8 October 2024 – 16 March 2025
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Since Tate Modern opened in 2000, the Turbine Hall has hosted some of the world’s most memorable and acclaimed works of contemporary art, reaching an audience of millions each year. The annual Hyundai Commission gives artists an opportunity to create new work for this unique context.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/mire-lee
Title: Anthony McCall
Date: 27 June 2024 – 27 April 2025
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: In Summer 2024, Tate Modern will present a focused exhibition of immersive works by English-born, US-based artist Anthony McCall. Occupying a space between sculpture, cinema and drawing, McCall is known for his ‘solid-light’ installations that began in 1973 with the seminal work Line Describing a Cone, a key work in Tate’s collection.In the exhibition, visitors will be able to enter and explore the large-scale sculptural forms which the artist creates from a thin mist and slowly evolving planes of projected light.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/anthony-mccall
Title: Photographing 80s Britain: A Critical Decade
Date: 21 November 2024 – 5 May 2025
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Explore one of the UK’s most critical decades, the 1980s. This exhibition traces the work of a diverse community of photographers, collectives and publications –creating radical responses to the turbulent Thatcher years. Set against the backdrop of race uprisings, the miner strikes, section 28, the AIDS pandemic and gentrification – be inspired by stories of protest and change.At the time, photography was used as a tool for social change, political activism, and artistic and photographic experiments. See powerful images that gave voice and visibility to underrepresented groups in society. This includes work depicting the Black arts movement, queer experience, South Asian diaspora and the representation of women in photography.This exhibition examines how photography collectives and publications highlighted these often-unseen stories, featured in innovative photography journals such as Ten 8 and Cameraworks. It will also look at the development of Autograph ABP, Half Moon Photography Workshop, and Hackney Flashers.Visitors will go behind the lens to trace the remarkable transformation of photography in Britain and its impact on art and the world.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/photographing-80s-britain-a-critical-decade
Title: Electric Dreams
Date: 28 November 2024 – 1 June 2025
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: From the birth of op art to the dawn of cybernetics, artists found new ways to engage the senses and play with our perception. Electric Dreams celebrates the early innovators of optical, kinetic, programmed and digital art, who pioneered a new era of immersive sensory installations and automatically-generated works.This major exhibition brings together groundbreaking works by a wide range of international artists who engaged with science, technology and material innovation. Experience the psychedelic environments they created in the 1950s and 60s, built using mathematical principles, motorised components and new industrial processes. See how radical artists embraced the birth of digital technology in the 1970s and 1980s, experimenting with machine-made art and early home computing systems.One of Tate Modern’s most ambitious exhibitions to date, Electric Dreams offers visitors a rare chance to experience incredible works of vintage tech art in action – a look back at how artists imagined the visual language of the future.Presented in the Eyal Ofer GalleriesSupported by The Electric Dreams Exhibition Supporters Circle, Tate Americas Foundation, Tate International Council, Tate Patrons. Research supported by Hyundai Tate Research Centre: Transnational in partnership with Hyundai Motor
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/electric-dreams
Title: Ugo Rondinone: Liverpool Mountain
Date: Until 6 September 2028
Location: Tate Liverpool + RIBA North
Intro: Liverpool Mountain is Swiss-artist Ugo Rondinone’s first public artwork in the UK and the first of its kind in Europe. Inspired by naturally occurring Hoodoos (spires or pyramids of rock) and the art of meditative rock balancing, this 10-metre high sculpture stands within Mermaid Courtyard, outside Tate Liverpool on the Royal Albert Dock Liverpool. It consists of coloured rocks, stacked vertically which seem to defy gravity.This outdoor sculpture marks the 10th anniversary of Liverpool European Capital of Culture, the 20th anniversary of Liverpool Biennial and the 30th anniversary of Tate Liverpool.Commissioned by Liverpool Biennial and Tate Liverpool as part of the Liverpool 2018 events programme with support from Royal Albert Dock Liverpool.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-liverpool/ugo-rondinone-liverpool-mountain
Title: Commission
Chris Ofili: Requiem
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Tate commissioned British artist Chris Ofili to create an artwork for the North Staircase at Tate Britain. Ofili considered the significance of painting directly onto the walls of a public building and wanted to choose a subject that affected us as a nation. Requiem is a dream-like mural, resulting from his poetic reflections.Ofili met fellow artist Khadija Saye in May 2017 when they were both exhibiting in Venice. One month later, Saye died in the Grenfell Tower fire. Memories of their meeting had a profound impact on Ofili. It helped him find a path to create this work, which holds at its centre an image of Saye as a ‘powerful creative force of transformation.’When making this artwork, Ofili recalled the feelings he had when he made No Woman, No Cry in 1998 (The work is on display in Room 26 at Tate Britain). No Woman, No Cry is a tribute to Stephen Lawrence and his mother, Doreen. Stephen was murdered in a racially motivated attack in 1993. For Ofili, ‘a statement of sadness was manifested in No Woman, No Cry. That feeling of injustice has returned.’‘I wanted to make a work in tribute to Khadija Saye. Remembering the Grenfell Tower fire, I hope that the mural will continue to speak across time to our collective sadness.’
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/chris-ofili-requiem
Title: Exhibition Tour: Yoko Ono
Date: 24 February 2024 at 10.15–11.15
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Yoko Ono is a leading figure in conceptual and performance art, film and music. Developing her practice in America, Japan and the UK, she is renowned for her activism, work for world peace, and environmental campaigns. Ideas are central to her art, often expressed in poetic, humorous and radical ways.Spanning more than seven decades, the exhibition focuses on key moments in Ono’s career, including her years in London from 1966 to 1971, where she met John Lennon.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/yoko-ono/exhibition-tour-yoko-ono
Title: Saborami with Cecilia Vicuña
Date: 24 February 2024 at 13.00–17.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Cecilia Vicuña created Saborami in the aftermath of the September 1973 military coup in Chile. Combining poetry, journal entries, documentation of artworks including assemblages and paintings, the book was first published in Devon, England in an edition of 250 hand-made copies by the artist-led Beau Geste Press. It was one of the first artistic responses to the violence of the military junta.Coinciding with the fiftieth anniversary of the book’s original publication and of the coup in Chile, this expanded edition published by Book Works contains a new introduction by art historian and curator Amy Tobin and poet and writer Luke Roberts. It includes rarely seen archival material from Vicuña’s time in London, such as contributions to the feminist newspaper Spare Rib, commentary from BBC coverage, and her role in Artists for Democracy in Chile and other solidarity campaigns.Cecilia Vicuña will be joined by Amy Tobin, Luke Roberts and special guests for a discussion, performance and readings.The event will be accompanied by a display of material from the Beau Geste Press (BGP) from Tate Library's collection. BGP was founded in Devon in 1970 by Felipe Ehrenberg, Martha Hellion, David Mayor, Chris Welch and Madeleine Gallard. The Library holds approximately 150 titles from the output of the Press, and 65 titles from the Beau and Aloes Arc Association. The collection was acquired directly from David Mayor in 1980 and uses Mayor’s original inventory as the basis of its organisation.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/saborami-with-cecilia-vicuna
Title: Members Hours: Yayoi Kusama
Date: 17 February 2024 at 09.00–10.0018 February 2024 at 09.00–10.0024 February 2024 at 09.00–10.0025 February 2024 at 09.00–10.00
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Tate is offering a rare chance to experience Infinity Mirrored Room – Filled with the Brilliance of Life. The piece was made to be on display in 2012 at Tate Modern and is one of the artist's largest installations to date.The second mirrored room, Chandelier of Grief, creates the illusion of endless rotating crystal chandeliers. Each room will transport you into Kusama's unique vision.The Members Bar opens at 10.00, so after you've visited the show why not treat yourself to a hot drink and a bite to eat?
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/yayoi-kusama-infinity-mirror-rooms/members-hours-yayoi-kusama
Title: Members Hours: Philip Guston
Date: 17 February 2024 at 09.00–10.0018 February 2024 at 09.00–10.0024 February 2024 at 09.00–10.0025 February 2024 at 09.00–10.00
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: For over 50 years, Philip Guston made artworks that captured the anxious and turbulent world around him. He became one of the most celebrated abstract painters of his time.His early work included murals and paintings addressing racism in America and wars abroad. During the social and political upheavals of the late 1960s, he grew critical of abstraction. He began producing large paintings with comic-like figures, some of which represented evil. These paintings established Guston as one of the most influential painters of the late 20th century.The Members Bar opens at 10.00, so why not treat yourself to a hot drink and a bite to eat? Don't forget to stop by the shop to use your discount.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/philip-guston/members-hours-philip-guston
Title: Members Hours: Yoko Ono
Date: 17 February 2024 at 09.00–10.0018 February 2024 at 09.00–10.0024 February 2024 at 09.00–10.0025 February 2024 at 09.00–10.00
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Yoko Ono is a leading figure in conceptual and performance art, film and music. This exhibition spans more than six decades and focuses on key moments in Ono's career. Alongside early performances, works on paper, objects, and music, visitors can experience some of Ono's activist projects like PEACE IS POWER and Wish Tree.Looking for a hot drink and a bite to eat after your visit? Stop by the L1 Members Bar from 10.00 and try our Tate roasted coffee.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/yoko-ono/members-hours-yoko-ono
Title: Yoga at Tate
Date: 25 February 2024 at 10.30–12.30 and 11.45–13.45
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Go with the flow in this calming, fluid class that connects breath with movement as you go from posture to posture. You'll be in Tate Modern’s East Room with natural daylight and floor to ceiling windows surrounded by the iconic views of the city and the longer holds will give you time to take it all in. While you flow you will be fully submerged in the potent vibration of sound healing using the gong, singing bowls and chimes. The perfect class for those who want to leave feeling centred rather than sweaty (and yoga beginners).Following the yoga session, a Tate expert guide will take you on an hour-long tour of the gallery, with a focus on mindfulness and slow looking. Expect to leave feeling revived, nourished and inspired.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/yoga-at-tate
Title: Tate Collective Producers Sessions
Date: Twice a month from September 2023 to March 2024
Location: Tate St Ives
Intro: A series of workshops for 15–25 year olds, taking you behind the scenes at Tate St Ives.This is a chance to become part of our group of young creatives at Tate St Ives. Working with artists and the Tate St Ives Young People’s Team you will create activities, installations and events for other young people and produce them at Tate St Ives.We don't expect you to have previous experience– all you need is a desire to get creative, experiment and collaborate.To take part please contact Kate Turner, Assistant Curator: Young People’s Programme, kate.turner@tate.org.uk
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-st-ives/tate-collective-producers-sessions
Title: Family Activity: Weathered
Date: Dailyuntil 25 February 2024
Location: Tate Liverpool + RIBA North
Intro: Looking for fun-filled activities this half term? Come along to our free family workshops where you and your family can unleash your inner artist!Draw your own pictures and transform them with rain, or make a sculpture that shows how wind moves!Take your creations home with you to continue your experiments outside or add them to our collective wind sculpture.During half term, every Monday and Thursday from 12.00-13.00 there will be an extra special activity on offer.Share your experience with us on social media using @tateliverpool and #TLfamilies.This activity is inspired by artists in the Tate Collection who invite the weather into their creative process. Some examples include David Medalla’s giant bubble machine, Olafur Eliasson's giant sun inside of Tate Modern and Jessica Warboys' Sea Painting made with the waves around Tate St. Ives.Please note these artworks are not currently on display at Tate Liverpool. The sun, waves that paint and bubble machine are in the Tate Collection.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-liverpool/family-activity-weathered
Title: Sunday Social: Women in Revolt!
Date: 25 February 2024 at 14.00–17.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Join us at Tate Britain for an afternoon of powerful, rebellious, and energetic responses to the art on display. The free workshops, music, and performances will offer the chance to experience the work of some of the artists and collectives featured in Women in Revolt and see the collection in a new light.Line up14.00–16.00 See Red Women's Workshop host a long table discussion and poster-making activity about collective work14.30–15.15 The Neo Naturists present a new performance lecture exploring the Tate Britain rehang*16.00–16.45 Multi-media performance by artist, filmmaker and musician, Gina Birch*This performance requires a free ticket, available to collect on the day from the Manton ticket desk.Activities for FamiliesFrom 13.00–16.00, Play Studio will pop up in Room 13. Inspired by Jessica Dismorr’s work and the artist’s interest in abstract patterns, The Sensory Toolkit (Sarah Evelyn Marsh) invites you to touch and explore fabric objects whose shapes appear to have fallen out of the surrounding artwork.Meanwhile, Play Studio and Story Space will be open for families of all ages to engage in zine-making activities inspired by Women in Revolt!
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-in-revolt/sunday-social-women-in-revolt
Title: ARTIST ROOMS
Diane Arbus
Date: Until 25 February 2024
Location: North Hertfordshire Museum
Intro: ARTIST ROOMS Diane Arbus is a touring exhibition that brings together a remarkable body of work by the influential American photographer. Featuring some of Arbus’s most iconic black and white portraits, the exhibition celebrates her enduring influence in the year that marks the centenary of her birth.Arbus is considered one of the great figures of American photography. She documented the lives, appearances and emotions of people, celebrating the extraordinary in the ordinary. The exhibition spans the breadth of Arbus’s career, beginning with early works from the mid-1950s taken with a 35mm camera, to the distinctive square format she adopted from 1962. A highlight in the exhibition is A box of ten photographs 1969–71, a rare portfolio of original prints which Arbus selected to represent who she was as an artist and how she saw her work in the world.North Hertfordshire Museum, located in Hitchin, showcases the rich history of North Hertfordshire, with art and heritage displays and regularly changing exhibitions across its four galleries. North Hertfordshire Museum is the final venue of this exhibition tour, and the first in the south of the UK.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/north-hertfordshire-museum/diane-arbus
Title: Members Private View: Yayoi Kusama
Date: 27 February 2024 at 18.45–21.30
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Lose yourself in Yayoi Kusama's immersive installationsTake some time to immerse yourself in two of Yayoi Kusama’s Infinity Mirror Rooms. Tate is offering this rare moment to experience the artist's iconic works. A small presentation of photographs will be on display, some for the first time.Make a night of it and stop by the Terrace Bar for a Kusama-themed cocktail or a bite to eat. Remember that the exhibition shop will be open and you can treat yourself with a 10% Members discount.Not a Private View Member yet? Email members@tate.org.uk to upgrade your membership and enjoy exclusive previews and private views of major London exhibitions.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/yayoi-kusama-infinity-mirror-rooms/members-private-view-yayoi-kusama
Title: Members Private View: Yoko Ono
Date: 14 February 2024 at 10.00–18.0027 February 2024 at 18.45–21.30
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Yoko Ono is a leading figure in conceptual and performance art, film and music. This exhibition spans more than six decades and focuses on key moments in Ono's career. Alongside early performances, works on paper, objects, and music, visitors can experience some of Ono's activist projects like PEACE IS POWER and Wish Tree.Looking to make the evening even more special? We're keeping the L1 Members Bar open just for you. Stop by to sit back, relax, and grab a drink after you visit the exhibition.Not a Private View Member yet? Email members@tate.org.uk to upgrade your membership and enjoy exclusive previews and private views of major London exhibitions.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/yoko-ono/members-private-view-yoko-ono
Title: Archival Reflections
Date: 28 February 2024 at 19.00–21.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Carole Enahoro’s rarely screened triple-screen film Oyinbo Pepper (1986), ‘uses archive footage and photographs from Nigeria and the UK to explore the experience of being biracial and bicultural, navigating between vigilance/obliviousness, entanglement/rupture. It ends by mapping hidden networks that exploit the effects of persistent uprooting and rerouting and drive the vulnerable away from supporting meshes towards harm and trauma.’Oyinbo Pepper is presented in dialogue with two films by Onyeka Igwe and Rhea Storr. Like Enahoro, both artists bring an archival materiality to their explorations of familial heritage and the landscapes - from Norfolk to Nigeria - that are encompassed within them.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-in-revolt/archival-reflections
Title: Lesbian and Queer Art/Action in 1980s Britain
Date: 29 February 2024 at 19.00–20.30
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: The 1980s were a critical decade in the struggle for lesbian rights and visibility in Britain. Society’s attitudes towards lesbians and queer individuals were largely shaped by stigma and ignorance, and media representation of lesbians was largely absent or concentrated on the perpetuation of narrow stereotypes. Despite facing widespread prejudice and homophobic policies such as the passing of Section 28, the LGBTQ+ community found ways to create spaces for liberation and solidarity.Featuring Women in Revolt! artists, this panel discussion takes their diverse bodies of work as a starting point to explore the nuanced ways in which art-making was used as a means of resistance and radical self-expression, fostered communities, and helped establish lesbian rights as part of the public discourse.Moderated by Dr Maggie Matić, the event aims to explore the historical resonance of 1980s lesbian and queer art in Britain and how it continues to inform art and activism today.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-in-revolt/lesbian-and-queer-artaction-in-1980s-britain
Title: Story Space Read Aloud: Joelle Avelino
Date: 2 March 2024 at 14.00–15.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Listen to Joelle Avelino, author of Tate-published Malola’s Museum Adventures and illustrator of books including Hey You!, Coming to England and Mama’s Sleeping Scarf read a selection of her favourite children’s books.You will also have the chance to draw along with Joelle and create your own character and storyline!
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/story-space-read-aloud-joelle-avelino
Title: Australian Wine Festival
Tasting and Jazz Dinner
Date: 2 March 2024 at 15.30–17.30
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: The event starts on Level 6 of the Blavatnik Building with a tasting of over 50 Australian wines, host Matthew Jukes will guide you through exceptional sparkling, white, red and fortified wines.After the tasting head to the Corner and stay on into the evening with live jazz and views of St Paul's. Go à la carte from the Corner menu with our seasonal small plates and exhibition-themed cocktails.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/australian-wine-festival
Title: Members Hours: Women in Revolt!
Date: 24 February 2024 at 09.00–10.0025 February 2024 at 09.00–10.002 March 2024 at 09.00–10.003 March 2024 at 09.00–10.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: This major survey of work by over 100 women artists working in the UK will be the first of its kind. Explore how artists used their creativity as a form of activism to respond to social, economic, and political issues during the 1970s to 1990s. The exhibition will focus on a diverse range of artists working with a wide variety of mediums.The Members Room opens at 10.00, so why not treat yourself to a hot drink and a bite to eat? Don't forget that Members get a discount in the shop too.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-in-revolt/members-hours-women-in-revolt
Title: Members Hours: Sargent and Fashion
Date: 24 February 2024 at 09.00–10.0025 February 2024 at 09.00–10.002 March 2024 at 09.00–10.003 March 2024 at 09.00–10.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Celebrated for his striking portrait paintings, this exhibition sheds new light on John Singer Sargent’s works. Almost 60 of Sargent’s paintings will be on display, including major portraits that rarely travel. Several period garments will be showcased alongside the portraits they were worn in. The show examines how this remarkable painter used fashion to create portraits of the time, which still captivate today.Looking for a hot drink and a bite to eat after your visit? Stop by the Members Room from 10.00 and try our coffee that we roast in the grounds of Tate Britain.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/sargent-and-fashion/members-hours-sargent-and-fashion
Title: Super Sunday Family Festival
Date: 3 March 2024 at 11.00–15.00
Location: Tate St Ives
Intro: Join in with our day of hands-on art, and get creative in the galleries together.Have fun in our Foyle Studio and make your own art inspired by Outi Pieski's exhibition. Explore Andy Holden's installation, and create a special bird to live in our giant bird's nest. Get moving and making in our dance and sculpture workshops, inspired by our wonderful sea view and the artwork of Ro Robertson. Take your art home or leave it on display in our gallery for other visitors to enjoy, on this fabulous Super Sunday.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-st-ives/super-sunday-family-festival-march-2023
Title: Succulent Planter Workshop x Botanical Boys
Date: 5 March 2024 at 18.30–20.30
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Join us for an evening workshop at The Corner with Botanical Boys and learn how to make your very own succulent planter to take home with you. You’ll be guided through the steps of planting and caring for a range of succulent plants and how to make them look balanced, proportioned and artistic. These are low maintenance plants and provide an instant pop of colour to your home.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/succulent-planter-workshop-x-botanical-boys
Title: Members Private View: Women in Revolt!
Date: 5 March 2024 at 18.45–21.30
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: This major survey of work by over 100 women artists working in the UK will be the first of its kind. Explore how artists used creativity to respond to social, economic, and political issues from the 1970s to 1990s. The exhibition will focus on a diverse range of artists working with a wide variety of mediums.Make a night of it – after you’ve seen the exhibition, why not go for drinks in the Members Room?Not a Private View Member yet? Email members@tate.org.uk to upgrade your membership and enjoy exclusive previews and private views of major London exhibitions.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-in-revolt/members-private-view-women-in-revolt
Title: Members Private View: Sargent and Fashion
Date: 21 February 2024 at 10.00–18.005 March 2024 at 18.45–21.30
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Celebrated for his striking portrait paintings, this exhibition sheds new light on John Singer Sargent’s works. Almost 60 of Sargent’s paintings will be on display, including major portraits that rarely travel. Several period garments will be showcased alongside the portraits they were worn in. The show examines how this remarkable painter used fashion to create portraits of the time, which still captivate today.Looking to make a night out of it? Stop by the Members Room for a selection of ciders, soft drinks, and wines from Tate Britain's cellar.Not a Private View Member yet? Email members@tate.org.uk to upgrade your membership and enjoy exclusive previews and private views of major London exhibitions.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/sargent-and-fashion/members-private-view-sargent-and-fashion
Title: Relaxed Hours
Yayoi Kusama: Infinity Mirror Rooms
Date: 7 February 2024 at 10.00–11.006 March 2024 at 10.00–11.00
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Join us on these relaxed mornings to enjoy a gallery environment with limited numbers of people and the opportunity to go through the two installation rooms at your own pace.These events are open to anyone who is disabled or neurodivergent and any other visitors with sensory needs who prefer a more relaxed experience, plus their families, friends and carers.Resources will be available on the day including:Access StationEar defendersA quiet breakout spaceTate staff will be aware that this is an access hour and will take that into consideration as they look after you and the artwork.Yayoi Kusama: Infinity Mirror Rooms is presented in The George Economou Gallery.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/yayoi-kusama-infinity-mirror-rooms/kusama-relaxed-hours
Title: Mary Kelly and Griselda Pollock in Conversation
Date: 6 March 2024 at 18.00–20.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Mary Kelly, celebrated since the 1970s for her significant contribution to conceptual and feminist art, has had a profound influence on generations of artists, writers, and curators, both through her artistic practice and her innovative teaching methods. Join Kelly and Griselda Pollock in conversation for the launch of Kelly's new book Concentric Pegagogy.Selected and introduced by Juli Carson, Concentric Pedagogy presents a collection of essential essays, interviews, and never-before published archival materials that trace the development of the teaching of this major artist and thinker from 1980 to 2017.Concentric Pedagogy explores how working at the intersection of teaching, artistic practice, and radical political engagement might transform our approach to all three. It is essential reading for students and teachers of art and design studio practice, art history and theory, contemporary, and feminist art.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-in-revolt/mary-kelly-griselda-pollock
Title: Gerard Ortín Castellví: Politics of Food
Date: 6 March 2024 at 18.30–20.30
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Bliss Point 2023 plunges us into the ever-accelerating rhythm of food supply and the emergence of new techno-capitalist processes. The film guides us from dark kitchens and food advertising sets to AI-managed warehouses. A delivery driver cycles across the city to a makeshift trailer where workers flip burgers. Algorithm powered robots buzz through a sprawling grid of crates and 3D printers stack layers of computer-generated data to produce food alternatives. Drawing from the concept of optimal palatability, Bliss Point reveals the entanglement of automation and human labour, and the ways in which the aesthetics and the politics of food intersect.The screening continues with Future Foods 2021, the first chapter in the trilogy, which investigates the relationship between image and food production. Framed against a phone conversation with the CEO of a tech start-up, the film observes the manufacturing process of food props. Juxtaposing the speculative with the artificial, the work explores how food is perceived, made digestible and consumed, pointing towards an uncertain near future of agricultural transformation.Shot in an industrial greenhouse, Agrilogistics 2022 infiltrates the production line, turning machines and optical imaging robots into cinematic devices. The film takes us into a hypnotic journey where fruits and flowers are processed, regulated and surveilled through cameras, while robot arms and human hands pluck and package the produce. At night, the haze of LED controlled lighting reveals an oneiric world of unexpected, sensory encounters between plants, animals and machines.The screening is organised in collaboration with Delfina Foundation.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/gerard-ortin-castellvi-politics-of-food
Title: Meet the Artist: Squash and RESOLVE Collective
Date: 7 March 2024 at 18.30–20.00
Location: Tate Liverpool + RIBA North
Intro: How can systems of resource sharing and collective ways of working help to build more sustainable creative communities?Join Becky Vipond from Squash and Nina Jang and Akil Scafe- Smith from RESOLVE Collective for an exciting panel discussion. They will discuss the ideas, experience and learning of their two creative organisations in relation to making work that is centred around people and place, promoting environmental sustainability and ideas around knowledge and resource sharing.The artists will also discuss RESOLVE’s current exhibition You Get a Car [Everybody Gets a Car] and how they are collaborating as part of this project.This event includes tea, coffee and delicious plant-based food provided by Squash (all included in your ticket and available on a first come, first served basis).Meet the Artist is a series of in conversation events at Tate Liverpool + RIBA North themed around art, environment and architecture.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-liverpool/meet-the-artist-resolve-collective
Title: Voice and Breath: JJJJJerome Ellis
Date: 7 March 2024 at 19.30–21.45
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Trade Winds is the first live performance in London by the US-based artist, poet and composer JJJJJerome Ellis, devised for Tate Modern’s Turbine Hall. Using spoken word and live music that combines saxophone, piano, hammer dulcimer and electronics, Ellis creates captivating improvisational sonic landscapes known as ‘clearings.’‘Clearings’, spaces Ellis forms through stuttering or ‘dysfluency’, challenge relationships between Blackness, speech, music and time. According to Ellis, opening up time points toward possibilities of refusal and dissent.Ellis’s performance takes shape in two halves. The first presents portions from Ellis’s ongoing bodies of work The Clearing 2021 and Aster of Ceremonies 2023. The second presents a newly created musical work titled A Response, In Admiration, to El Anatsui’s Behind the Red Moon 2024. This work is inspired by Ellis’s time spent with El Anatsui’s Hyundai Commission.Located on the Turbine Hall Bridge and surrounded by Anatsui’s work, Ellis's performance will connect with the stories of power, oppression and resilience explored within the commission.Trade Winds is the first part of a two-night programme titled Voice and Breath, which presents contemporary artistic practices working at the intersection of performance, poetry and music.This performance is relaxed.The second night of the programme is a performance by writer, poet and artist Olivia Douglass on 9 March.This event is organised by Hyundai Tate Research Centre: Transnational.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/voice-and-breath-jjjjjerome-ellis
Title: Pratibha Parmar in Focus
Date: 8 March 2024 at 19.00–21.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: The ground-breaking films of Pratibha Parmar have been raising issues central to feminism over many decades: from the rights of marginalised women and the LGBTQ community, her work has made the voices and experiences of women of colour heard through feature film works, television documentaries and short films. ‘My passion is firmly focused at the intersections of art and social justice as well as smart entertainment. I have always been compelled to tell stories of people relegated to the margins of mainstream culture. I get excited by collaborating with like-minded humans creating moving images, building different kinds of worlds and possibilities and disrupting existing paradigms. I especially love telling stories with strong female characters.’A screening focuses on Parmar’s iconic video works from the 1980s and 1990s, Emergence (1986), A Place of Rage (1991) and Khush (1991), accompanied by insights from the director, in conversation with the artist Lubaina Himid.A Place of Rage is currently available to stream in North America on the Criterion Channel.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-in-revolt/pratibha-parmar-in-focus
Title: Global Roots
Modern Music Archive
Date: 8 March 2024 at 18.00–22.00
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: This Friday we welcome Anna MJ - electronic music head, (one and a half) of Global Roots, resident at Tate Lates. Formally A & R at Warp records and now Decca Publishing. Anna is known for her distinct taste for far reaching sounds and sonics where classical music meets electronics.MMA is our music residency with Global Roots - bringing new sounds from around the globe to Tate's Corner bar on fortnightly Fridays and monthly Saturdays.From West African beats to Norwegian Gospel, Global Roots gives agency to alternate perspectives and now, using the art and artists from Tate Collection for added inspiration.Global Roots is the brainchild of Thristian, an unrivalled selector with a deeply rooted presence in the global music scene. This visionary tastemaker has spent the past decade carving out an international reputation amongst fans, producers and DJs as a champion of eclecticism, venturing across borders both musical and geographical with selections that shine a light on the underground, the unknown and the unexplored.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/global-roots
Title: Exhibition Tour: Sargent and Fashion
Date: 9 March 2024 at 10.15–11.15
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Explore how Sargent used fashion and costume as a powerful tool in his portraits.Almost 60 of Sargent’s paintings will be on display, including major portraits that rarely travel.Several period garments will also be showcased alongside the portraits they were worn in. The show examines how this remarkable painter used fashion to create portraits of the time, which still captivate today.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/sargent-and-fashion/exhibition-tour-sargent-and-fashion
Title: U Studio Festival
Date: 9 March 2024 at 14.00–19.00
Location: Tate St Ives
Intro: Enjoy live music, DJ sets, workshops and performances led by young creatives.Get inspired, relax, and explore the galleries after hours. Festival tickets include access to our exhibition Outi Pieski, and displays Andy Holden: A Natural History of Nest Building and Modern Conversations.U Studio Festival is curated by Tate Collective Producers at Tate St Ives.16-25? Sign up for a free Tate Collective account and get discounts in our shop and café.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-st-ives/u-studio-festival-march-2024
Title: Voice and Breath: Olivia Douglass
Date: 9 March 2024 at 19.30–21.00
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Ordinary Dreams is a new project by writer, poet and artist Olivia Douglass, an ongoing experiment in merging poetic practice with sound, performance and installation. Originally manifesting as a short film and song, the project will debut as a live performance at Tate Modern. Rooted in Black and queer experiences, Ordinary Dreams explores the tension between day-to-day and radical visions of life and desire. It looks to dreaming as a way to create knowledge and shape reality.This iteration of Ordinary Dreams takes shape through collaboration between UK-based poets and artists, with guest poets Remi Graves, Otamere Guobadia and Munesu Mukombe, together with contributions by Douglass and a newly composed live score by FAUZIA.Douglass poses the question of what ‘ordinary’ means to Black and queer people, while navigating a world in which living without being vigilant is still a dream. Situated on Tate Modern’s Turbine Hall Bridge and held by El Anatsui’s Hyundai Commission: Behind the Red Moon, Ordinary Dreams continues Douglass’s ongoing commitment to articulating alternative visions of liberated Black queer experiences beyond colonial frameworks.Ordinary Dreams is the second part of a two-night programme titled Voice and Breath, which presents contemporary artistic practices working at the intersection of performance, poetry and music.The first part of the programme is a performance by artist, poet and composer JJJJJerome Ellis on 7 March.This event is organised by Hyundai Tate Research Centre: Transnational.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/voice-and-breath-olivia-douglass
Title: Tate Collective After Hours
Yayoi Kusama: Infinity Mirror Rooms
Date: 10 March 2024 at 19.00–21.00
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: We're opening Tate Modern after hours for Tate Collective to explore Yayoi Kusama: Infinity Mirror Rooms. This rare moment will allow you to explore the artist's endless vision. There will be a small display of photographs to provide additional context.After you visit the show, use your 10% off in the shop to take home some special merch.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/yayoi-kusama-infinity-mirror-rooms/tate-collective-after-hours
Title: Working Together
Women in Revolt!
Date: 12 March 2024 at 19.00–20.30
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Collective practices have been pivotal to feminist creative and activist efforts. In the 1970s and 80s, many women artists embraced group work as a means of mutual support, unlocking creative potential, and combating patriarchal individualism.Featuring Women in Revolt! artists including Ingrid Pollard from Lenthall Road Workshop, Maggie Murray from Hackney Flashers and Format Photographers Agency, alongside Women's Art Library curator Althea Greenan, this panel discussion highlights pioneering feminist collective art practices. These artists adopted group work to challenge conventional gender norms and address the systemic undervaluing of 'women’s work'.Chaired by journalist Moya Lothian-McLean, this event aims to reflect on the enduring relevance of collective practice, and ask: How can the alternative economies forged by these artists inspire contemporary efforts for gender equality and social change?
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-in-revolt/working-together
Title: Through a Radical Lens
Date: 6 December 2023 – 13 March 2024
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: The six-part film programme Through a Radical Lens takes up the themes of the current Tate Britain exhibition Women in Revolt: Art and Activism in the UK 1970-1990 through the film and videos practices of UK based feminist artists then and now. The screenings and conversations revisit urgencies of the 1970s and 1980s which are still current today.Through a Radical Lens is programmed by Lucy Reynolds, with curatorial contributions from Club des Femmes, Karen di Franco for Chelsea Space, and Rachel Garfield and Will Fowler at BFI Southbank.Women in Revolt! Art and Activism in the UK 1970-1990 is supported by the Women in Revolt! Exhibition Supporters Circle, Tate International Council, Tate Patrons and Tate Members. With additional support on the associated film programme, Through a Radical Lens, from Action4Equality Scotland Ltd.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-in-revolt/through-a-radical-lens
Title: Always in Animation
Date: 13 March 2024 at 19.00–21.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: A screening and conversation with Leeds Animation workshop, reflecting their long- standing commitment as a not-for-profit women-only co-operative, using animation as a tool to address issues central to feminist campaigning, with humour and immediacy.Like many feminist endeavours, Leeds animation workshop grew out of feminist support networks and campaigns, when a group of friends got together in 1978 to make a film addressing the pressing need for better pre-school childcare, called Who Needs Nurseries? We Do! The film provided the impetus for the founding of Leeds Animation Workshop as a feminist co-operative dedicated to using animation to campaign for change in the enduring issues of racism, labour rights and gender equalities, homelessness, health and ecology. ‘Always in Animation’ shares a selection of their films, covering these questions with inventive story-telling and technique.Members of the Leeds Animation Workshop will be in conversation with the artist Rehana Zaman following the screening.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-in-revolt/always-in-animation
Title: Tate Collective After Hours
Sargent and Fashion
Date: 14 March 2024 at 19.00–21.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: We’re keeping Tate Britain open after hours just for Tate Collective. Find out how painter John Singer Sargent used fashion to express identity and personality!
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/sargent-and-fashion/after-hours-sargent-and-fashion
Title: Curator's Tour: Sargent and Fashion
Date: 15 March 2024 at 18.30–20.30
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Take this opportunity to hear about this impressive exhibition, from the Curator James Finch and Assistant Curator Chiedza Mhondoro.Explore over 60 of Sargent's paintings alongside period garments which can be seen next to the portraits they were worn in.Learn about how Sargent used fashion as a tool to express identity and personality. And discover his daring use of styling costumes on his sitters to emphasise his vision as an artist.The show examines how this remarkable painter used fashion to create portraits of the time, which still captivate today.Following the tour participants will have the opportunity for a private view of the exhibition.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/sargent-and-fashion/curators-tour-sargent-and-fashion
Title: Tate Britain Members Welcome Tour
Date: 9 February 2024 at 15.00–16.0010 February 2024 at 11.00–12.0015 March 2024 at 15.00–16.0016 March 2024 at 11.00–12.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Take a moment to discover Tate and how your membership supports the gallery, in a free walking tour of Tate Britain. Enjoy a fascinating introduction to the gallery in the company of one of our highly experienced guides, Richard Thomas. He will give you a sense of the galleries and artwork, a peak at the history of the building and, of course, a tour of the Members room in the Rotunda, your space to relax and delight in a beautiful space.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/tate-britain-members-welcome-tour
Title: Tate Modern Architecture Tour
Date: 13 January 2024 at 14.00–15.3016 March 2024 at 14.00–15.30
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Since Tate Modern first opened in 2000, it has become a London landmark, not just for the art it houses, but also for the architecture of the building itself. A remarkable combination of old and new, the tour will take you through the former Bankside Power Station with its iconic 3,300 m2 Turbine Hall and Tanks that still smell of oil, before delving into the innovative and ambitious Blavatnik Building extension.Places are limited and we recommend booking in advance.You can also enjoy a Tate Britain Architecture Tour.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/tate-modern-architecture-tour
Title: Natalie Bell Building Members Welcome Tour
Date: 11 February 2024 at 11.00–12.0017 March 2024 at 11.00–12.00
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Take a moment to discover Tate and how your membership supports the gallery, in a free walking tour of Tate Modern's Natalie Bell Building.Enjoy a fascinating introduction to the building in the company of one of our highly experienced guides, Richard Thomas. Enjoy the galleries and artwork, explore the architecture and take in the breathtaking views from the Members bar.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/natalie-bell-building-members-welcome-tour
Title: Blavatnik Building Members Welcome Tour
Date: 11 February 2024 at 14.00–15.0017 March 2024 at 14.00–15.00
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Take a moment to discover Tate and how your membership supports the gallery, in a free walking tour of Tate Modern's Blavatnik Building. Enjoy a fascinating introduction to the building in the company of one of our highly experienced guides, Richard Thomas.Enjoy the galleries and artwork, explore the architecture and learn about the site’s history.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/blavatnik-building-members-welcome-tour
Title: Relaxed Hours: Women in Revolt!
Date: 21 February 2024 at 10.00–11.0020 March 2024 at 10.00–11.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Join us on these relaxed mornings to enjoy a gallery environment with limited numbers of people.These events are open to anyone who is disabled or neurodivergent and any other visitors with sensory needs who prefer a more relaxed experience, plus their families, friends and carers.Resources will be available on the day including:Access StationEar defendersA quiet breakout spaceTate staff will be aware that this is an access hour and will take that into consideration as they look after you and the artwork.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-in-revolt/relaxed-hours
Title: Tate Collective After Hours
Yoko Ono: Music of the Mind
Date: 21 March 2024 at 19.00–21.00
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: We're keeping Tate Modern open after hours for Tate Collective! Check out Yoko Ono's powerful, participatory work spanning over seven decades, including groundbreaking art, film and music.Around after your visit? Head down to Corner for our latest Corner Session curated by Rhea Louise. Experience a mix of old school R&B, hip hop, afrobeats, garage, dancehall, neo-soul, soca, rare groove, future sounds, edits, 80s soul and more. Plus, don't forget to flash your Tate Collective card for 20% off at the bar!Tate Collective is supported by Anthony and Sandra Gutman, Rothschild Foundation and Tate Patrons.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/yoko-ono/yoko-ono-after-hours
Title: Women in Revolt!: radical acts, contemporary resonances
Date: 22 March 2024 at 10.00–18.0023 March 2024 at 10.00–18.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Organised by CREAM (the Centre for Research and Education in Arts and Media at the University of Westminster) this two-day conference explores the live and performance-based arts, sound and moving image practices that were an integral part of feminist creative and campaigning activities of the 1970s and 1980s.Part of the Through a Radical Lens events series accompanying the Women in Revolt! exhibition at Tate Britain, the conference brings together presentations from an international array of researchers and artists in response to an open call, alongside workshops and roundtable discussion.Speakers will discuss themes related to collaborative making, archive and publication formation, the links between performance and protest, and movements beyond the UK, to consider how activist approaches continue to resonate in contemporary feminism.The full programme will be announced in February 2024.This event is organised by CREAM (Centre for Research and Education in Arts and Media,) at the University of Westminster with funding from the Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art. The conference is co-ordinated in association with Tate Curation, with additional contributions by Chelsea Space, University of the Arts London. With thanks to the conference advisory committee for their further invaluable support.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-in-revolt/women-in-revolt-radical-acts-contemporary-resonances
Title: African Heritage Tours at Tate Britain
Date: 3 February 2024 at 15.00–16.0011 February 2024 at 15.00–16.0018 February 2024 at 15.00–16.0025 February 2024 at 15.00–16.0029 February 2024 at 11.00–12.002 March 2024 at 15.00–16.0010 March 2024 at 15.00–16.0017 March 2024 at 15.00–16.0024 March 2024 at 15.00–16.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: These tours explore the history and influence of people of African and Caribbean Heritage in British Art from the 1500s to the current day.During October for Black History Month there will be additional ten minute talks by volunteers and staff.Tours are subject to change, please call the ticket desk on the morning of your visit to confirm which tours and talks are going ahead.Tours meet at the top of the Rotunda Stairs at Tate Britain.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/african-heritage-tours-at-tate-britain
Title: African Heritage Tours at Tate Modern
Date: 2 February 2024 at 15.00–16.0025 February 2024 at 15.00–16.0010 March 2024 at 15.00–16.0024 March 2024 at 15.00–16.00
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: These tours explore artworks relating to African and Caribbean Heritage and history at Tate Modern.During October for Black History Month there will be additional ten minute talks by volunteers and staff.Tours are subject to change, please call the ticket desk on the morning of your visit to confirm which tours and talks are going ahead.Tours meet at the Level 2 tour meeting point in the Natalie Bell Building, at the entrance to In the Studio.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/african-heritage-tours-at-tate-modern
Title: Members Tour: Outi Pieski
Date: 26 March 2024 at 18.30–20.00
Location: Tate St Ives
Intro: Get to know the new exhibition of Sámi visual artist Outi Pieski with an in-depth tour taking place after hours.Our Tate St Ives curators will walk you through the exhibition adding further context to Pieski’s works, expanding on this thought-provoking display.Outi Pieski’s work incorporates duodji (the traditional craft practices of the Sámi people) using materials such as wood and textile. For Pieski, duodji is also a way of revitalising connections between past and future generations.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-st-ives/outi-pieski/members-tour-outi-pieski
Title: Discovery Tour
Date: Every Wednesday, Friday and Saturday 11.30–12.30
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Explore the Tate collections with the guidance of a Tate expert on one of our new Discovery Tours. Expect to be inspired and informed on this one hour tour of the main collections at Tate Modern. Encompassing our most famous works of art, this tour ensures you will explore our 'must see' artists and displays.Bookable online and at our ticket desk.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/discovery-tour
Title: Discovery Tour
Date: Thursdays at 11.30–12.30 and Saturdays at 14.30–15.30
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Explore the Tate collections with the guidance of a Tate expert on one of our new Discovery Tours. Expect to be inspired and informed on this one hour tour of Tate Britain encompassing our most famous works of art, this tour ensures you will explore our 'must see' artists and displays.Bookable online and at our ticket desk.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/discovery-tour
Title: LGBTQIA+ Tours at Tate Britain
Date: 4 February 2024 at 15.00–16.007 February 2024 at 15.00–16.0010 February 2024 at 15.00–16.0017 February 2024 at 15.00–16.0024 February 2024 at 15.00–16.003 March 2024 at 15.00–16.006 March 2024 at 15.00–16.009 March 2024 at 15.00–16.0016 March 2024 at 15.00–16.0023 March 2024 at 15.00–16.0030 March 2024 at 15.00–16.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: The tours are aimed at exploring the Tate Collection through the lens of gender identity and sexuality.Please check tours are running by calling the ticket desk on the day of the tour.Tours meet at the top of the Rotunda Stairs at Tate Britain.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/lgbtqia-tours-tate-britain
Title: LGBTQIA+ Tours at Tate Modern
Date: 7 February 2024 at 15.00–16.0017 February 2024 at 15.00–16.0024 February 2024 at 15.00–16.0023 March 2024 at 15.00–16.0030 March 2024 at 15.00–16.00
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: The tours are aimed at exploring the Tate Collection through the lens of gender identity and sexuality.Please check tours are running by calling the ticket desk on the day of the tour.Tours meet on Level 2 in the Natalie Bell Building.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/lgbtqia-tours-at-tate-modern
Title: Touch Tours
Date: Daily
Location: Barbara Hepworth Museum and Sculpture Garden
Intro: Accompanied by a Touch Tour Guide, and wearing sculpture conservation gloves, participants are supported to touch and discuss the composition, materials, and histories of selected artworks on display at the Barbara Hepworth Museum and Sculpture Garden.Touch Tours are designed specifically for visitors who are partially sighted or blind. We offer personal guiding using rambletags. If you haven’t used a rambletag before, it is a guiding cuff which means that you have no hand on arm physical touching with your guide.Guide dogs are welcome.There are steps and uneven surfaces that make access difficult. For this reason manual wheelchair access is by prior appointment only. Wheelchairs are available to reserve for free. Bookings should be made at least 24 hours before visiting. Mobility scooters are not permitted. For booking any of the above that require advance booking or further enquiries, please phone: 01736 791177.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/barbara-hepworth-museum-and-sculpture-garden/touch-tours
Title: Late at Tate Britain
Women in Revolt!
Date: 5 April 2024 at 18.00–22.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Building upon the revolutionary ideas of women artists, we explore key intersections of personhood and how the themes of the exhibition are still relevant and essential today.At this Late at Tate Britain experience workshops, performances, DJ sets, talks and displays that imagine new futures, question the role of mothers in society and explore the politics of the body.This programme has been curated by Tate Collective Producers Jasmine Pierre and Zahra Coulthard.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/late-at-tate-britain
Title: Bobby Baker
An Edible Family in a Mobile Home
Date: 8 November – 3 December 2023 at 11.00–17.308 March – 7 April 2024 at 11.00–17.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Experience a 2023 replica of Bobby Baker’s An Edible Family in a Mobile Home (1976, 2023), an installation on Tate Britain's South Lawn. Originally staged in 1976, this special remake comes as part of Women in Revolt! Art and Activism in the UK 1970-1990 – a major exhibition of feminist art in the UK.This exciting remake of Baker’s 1970s East London home features life-sized family figures formed of garibaldi biscuits, meringue, and various flavours of cake (including a vegan option), specially baked by Lily Vanilli. Every interior surface within the home is plastered with newspapers from the 1970s. You will be welcomed into the home by trained hosts recruited from Chelsea College of Arts, part of University of the Arts London (UAL), who will offer you tea and let you sample the delicious edible sculptures.The restaged An Edible Family in a Mobile Home will be open to the public and free to visit for the first four weeks of the exhibition (8 November – 3 December 2023) and again for the final four weeks of the exhibition (8 March – 7 April 2024).Women in Revolt! Art and Activism in the UK 1970-1990 is on at Tate Britain from 8 November 2023 to 7 April 2024Presented by Daily Life Ltd. in partnership with Tate, Whitworth and Idle WomenSupported using public funding by the National Lottery through Arts Council EnglandWomen in Revolt! is supported by the Women in Revolt! Exhibition Supporters Circle, Tate International Council, Tate Patrons and Tate Members
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-in-revolt/bobby-baker
Title: Wellbeing and Watercolours
Date: 10 April 2024 at 18.00–20.00
Location: Tate Liverpool + RIBA North
Intro: Pick up a paintbrush, experiment with different painting techniques and develop your creative skills in this watercolour workshop. This promises to be a fun evening which uses art as a way to help improve your wellbeing.Led by talented artist and educator Louise Waller, you'll be encouraged to create your own watercolour postcard. Louise will be on hand to give hints and tips to help you paint a masterpiece.Your ticket includes materials to use during the session plus you'll receive 10% off in our shop, which includes painting supplies you may need to continue to develop your artistic skills at home. Drinks will also be available to purchase throughout the evening.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-liverpool/wellbeing-and-watercolours
Title: Art Explorers
Date: Daily 24 March – 13 April 2024
Location: Tate St Ives
Intro: Have fun exploring the galleries at Tate St Ives with our Explorer Backpacks and Tate Shapes activities.Get creative with our Sketchbook or pick up an Art Explorer card.Our Foyle Studio will be open for you to take some time out to relax, play games or read a book.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-st-ives/art-explorers-summer2023
Title: Story Space
Date: Open every weekend and Thursdays during term-time. Every day during school holidays
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Explore the growing Story Space book collection, celebrating books that centre children of colour, featuring books by black authors, indigenous authors and authors of colour from around the world. Story Space also includes books by authors and about characters who have protected characteristics such as disability, sexual orientation and religion/ belief.Read to yourself, to someone else, with each other, out loud. Once you’ve discovered some new stories, tell your own story through our dress-up and drawing activities!Looking for inspiration for stories of your own? Take a look round the galleries and discover ideas for new characters and settings.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/story-space
Title: Easter Family Activity
Date: Daily29 March – 14 April 2024
Location: Tate Liverpool + RIBA North
Intro: Enjoy free, hands-on art activities at Tate Liverpool + RIBA North this Easter. Get your whole family involved with activities designed for all ages and available every day throughout the school holidays.Our free Art Games booklets are also available to pick up and take home.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-liverpool/easter-family-activity
Title: Corner Sessions
CJ Beatz
Date: 21 February 2024 at 18.00–21.306 March 2024 at 18.00–21.3020 March 2024 at 18.00–21.303 April 2024 at 18.00–21.3017 April 2024 at 18.00–21.30
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: 21 Feb - CJ BeatzAn internationally respected DJ, Producer and Presenter, CJ Beatz has worked with everyone from Drake to Adele to Stella McCartney to Kevin Hart to Frank Ocean. With an industry reputation that's second to none, CJs skill and unparalleled ability to rock any crowd remain the calling card of his work, transitioning from festival stages to A-list private parties with ease. 06 March - Tina EdwardsOne of the most curious and respected selectors in the U.K., Tina Edwards joins the dots between Jazz and club culture.Whether it’s modern jazz dance floor burners, unearthed and obscure 90s acid jazz or afro-driven rhythms from across the world, Tina’s sets are as much an introduction to incredible lesser-heard music as much as they are a celebration of the current UK Jazz explosion. Much like pioneers of the 90s jazz resurgence, Tina is a tastemaker who is breaking artists and bringing jazz to a whole new club-orientated audience, and now to Corner.20 March - Rhea LouiseAlumni for the Southbank DJ Sessions class of '16, London raised DJ Rhea Louise has been flying ever since. With gigs spanning from Colombia to Dubai she was inspired by her family of ravers and DJs, it's safe to say her journey was mapped out within music and she fell in love with the decks.Creating a clear niche for herself she is the go to choice for events with her understanding and respect of old skool R&B, hip hop, afrobeats, garage, dancehall, neo-soul, soca, rare groove, future sounds, edits and 80s soul. With no boundaries her musical knowledge is second to none and can be found on her Mixcloud page with radio mixes for BBC 1xTra and No Signal radio. Rhea Louise holds residences at Nike Town, Boxpark, Rock The Belles, Jujus, Birch Hotel and We Work
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/corner-sessions
Title: Introduction to Photography: Architecture
Date: 20 April 2024 at 10.30–14.00
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: This practical one-day workshop invites you to explore and expand your photography in relation to the architecture and collections displays of Tate Modern. We will draw inspiration from how artists and photographers from the Tate Collection have approached the built environment and introduce technical aspects of architectural photography before you apply the insights and techniques learnt to your own work.Over the course of the session, you will build up the introductory skills needed to fine-tune or get you started with architectural photography.This session is for people aged 16 and over. It is suitable for photographers at all levels, including beginners. Participants must bring their own digital camera or camera phone. A digital SLR camera is recommended, but not essential.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/introduction-to-photography-architecture
Title: Beats and Boards
with Haseeb Iqbal
Date: 7 March 2024 at 18.30–21.3019 March 2024 at 18.30–21.3026 March 2024 at 18.30–21.302 April 2024 at 18.30–21.3011 April 2024 at 18.30–21.3018 April 2024 at 18.30–21.3025 April 2024 at 18.30–21.30
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Haseeb Iqbal, the broadcaster, DJ and writer, brings an incredibly exciting new midweek residency to The Corner.Combining board games, music as well as themed nights and performances, Iqbal's new residency is a space for an array of interests to intersperse. He will be soundtracking the evenings, journeying through the depths of his record collection as a selection of board games will be on offer to play. From scrabble, ludo and chess to Ghanian board game Oware and South Asian tabletop game Carrom, this will be a night to stimulate all the senses.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/beats-and-boards
Title: Art Games: Mildred the Gallery Cat
Date: Available every day from 27 October 2023
Location: Tate Liverpool + RIBA North
Intro: Inspired by the much-loved children’s book about Mildred the Gallery Cat at Tate, this free activity book contains lots of exciting games and challenges to keep little ones engaged during their visit and beyond!Have a go at our spot the difference game, recreate an incredible portrait by Pablo Picasso in our dot-to-dot activity, try your hand at a wordsearch and complete the drawings of Mildred the Cat by adding different faces. There’s also the chance to become an artist yourself and draw a person or object in one of the frames and maybe your favourite artwork in another!These free activity books are available from our Learning Space at RIBA North.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-liverpool/art-games-mildred-the-gallery-cat
Title: Look Group Social
Date: 4 May 2024 at 14.00–17.00
Location: Tate St Ives
Intro: Take part in this self-led social which includes introductory exhibition talks and a chance to connect with other Look Groups over light refreshments. Taking place during the Last Weekend festival, this is an opportunity for Look Group members to also enjoy performance, film, talks and making in celebration of the exhibition Outi Pieski.Booking is essential. Contact Tate St Ives or your local Look Group Coordinator for more information.Want to join a Look Group?If you would like to join a Look Group or set up your own, please get in touch, wherever you are based, by emailing look.groups@tate.org.uk. Look Groups are inspired by the format of a book group, they meet in their own communities to talk about art, artists, and ideas.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-st-ives/outi-pieski/look-group-social
Title: Tate Modern Free Guided Tours
Date: Tours run most days at 12.00, 13.00 and 14.00
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Each tour is different and packed with fascinating insights, information and stories. Our Guides come from a wide range of backgrounds and their tours reflect their passions and interests.All tours last around 45 minutes and start at the meeting point on Level 2 in the Natalie Bell Building.Our tours are delivered by volunteers and are sometimes subject to cancellation and change, please call the ticket desk on the day for confirmation of our daily tour times.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/tate-modern-free-guided-tours-and-talks
Title: Introduction to Watercolour
Technique, Experimentation and process
Date: 24 February 2024 at 10.30–13.3011 May 2024 at 10.30–13.30
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: This practical workshop invites you to explore some traditional and more experimental watercolour techniques, looking at a brief history of watercolour and how artists from the Tate Collection have used the material. Techniques learnt will then be applied to your own larger scale artworks. Over the course of the workshop, you will build up the introductory skills and techniques needed to get you started making your own masterpieces.Examples of Technique: Wet in wet, wash/graded, wash/variegated, wash, bleeding, negative painting and salt and wax resistance.The sketching session includes materials to take home with you, including a set of Winsor & Newton: John Singer Sargent Watercolours, produced in collaboration with Tate.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/introduction-to-watercolour
Title: The London Cider Salon
Date: 11 May 2024 at 14.00–16.30 and 17.00–19.30
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: The London Cider Salon returns for a second year, providing an intimate opportunity to taste a vast array of the finest ciders and perries, the new seasons latest & greatest bottles, and to meet the incredible people who create them.May is blossom season in the cider world, the start of a wonderful, natural cycle; it begins with the blossom on the trees, and many months later, after the apples have grown under the summer sun, and the cider maker has exercised their craft across winter, the glorious drink we call cider is the reward.This is not mass market cider, which often uses water & apple concentrate, this is the drink Laurie Lee called the 'wine of wild orchards', and diarist John Evelyn titled 'the native wine of England'. From traditional classic styles to innovative blends and co-ferments, the London Cider Salon showcases the variety and depths cider can hold when you venture beyond the mass market.But this is also a chance to celebrate orchards, the biodiversity and environmental positives they can provide. A series of talks will accompany the London Cider Salon, covering this topic and more.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/the-london-cider-salon
Title: Toddle Tate
Date: Once a month
Location: Tate St Ives
Intro: Play, explore, create and investigate art in these fun Toddle Tate sessions for children under 5 and their grown-ups. Have fun exploring the galleries and enjoy our Foyle Studio, which will become a space for multi-sensory play and exploring exciting materials.Please note: the February session takes place off site at St Ives Library.FebruarySENSORY STORIES AT ST IVES LIBRARYExplore stories through sensory play at this special Toddle Tate, popping up at St Ives Library. Bring to life the joy of storytelling and imagination, through child-led making and play activities. Then cosy up with your favourite book.MarchTHREADSExperiment with tactile textiles in this month’s Toddle Tate inspired by the Outi Pieski exhibition at Tate St Ives. Touch, wrap, thread, and weave your way through the galleries. Enjoy messy making in our Toddle Tate studio and discover our loose parts play.AprilNATUREExplore the magic of the natural world in this month’s Toddle Tate inspired by artist Outi Pieski at Tate St Ives. Celebrate the plants and animals we share our planet with through making, storytelling and play.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-st-ives/toddler-tate
Title: UNIQLO Tate Play Make Studio: Kinetic
Date: Every weekend and Wednesdays from 24 February 2024 until 22 May 2024 (Except 30 March - 14 April 2024)
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Explore and play with form, space, colour and movement to create artwork that can swing or sway. Make and attach your creations to an ever growing and ever-changing collaborative mobile. Design and construct a moving cardboard automaton that comes to life.For under 5s, test your balance, move and spin on boards, planks and domes. Play balance games as a team and relax in soft spaces to read books inspired by art and things that move.Join us over May half-term where Kinetic Make Studio goes large. Work together to explore, create, and play with balance and movement.UNIQLO Tate Play Holiday Make Studio: KineticSaturday 25 May – Sunday 2 June 2024
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/uniqlo-tate-play/uniqlo-tate-play-make-studio-kinetic
Title: Introduction to Photography: Architecture
Date: 8 June 2024 at 10.30–14.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: This practical one-day workshop invites you to explore and expand your photography in relation to the architecture and collections displays of Tate Modern. We will draw inspiration from how artists and photographers from the Tate Collection have approached the built environment and introduce technical aspects of architectural photography before you apply the insights and techniques learnt to your own work.Over the course of the session, you will build up the introductory skills needed to fine-tune or get you started with architectural photography.This session is for people aged 16 and over. It is suitable for photographers at all levels, including beginners. Participants must bring their own digital camera or camera phone. A digital SLR camera is recommended, but not essential.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/introduction-to-photography-architecture-3
Title: Exhibition Talk
Sargent and Fashion
Date: 15 March 2024 at 13.00–14.0012 April 2024 at 13.00–14.0017 May 2024 at 13.00–14.0014 June 2024 at 13.00–14.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Enhance your visit with this one hour talk in the Clore Auditorium. An excellent opportunity to learn more about the themes and works included in this highly anticipated exhibition.Your ticket includes admission to the exhibition so you can head there afterwards and enjoy it with a deeper knowledge.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/sargent-and-fashion/exhibition-talk-sargent-and-fashion
Title: Introduction to Sketching
An Exploration of Technique, Skill and Colour
Date: 27 January 2024 at 10.30–14.0024 February 2024 at 10.30–14.0023 March 2024 at 10.30–14.0027 April 2024 at 10.30–14.0025 May 2024 at 10.30–14.0015 June 2024 at 10.30–14.00
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Learn the key skills and techniques for sketching and gain a unique look at some of Britain's most prominent artists. This practical workshop will take place in the Tate Britain Collection where you will work directly in front of artworks. Over the course of the workshop, you will build up the introductory skills and techniques needed to get you started making your own masterpieces.Examples of Technique: hatching, crosshatching, blending, stippling, circling, shading, scaling and washing.The sketching session includes materials to take home with you, including a Winsor & Newton: Drawing Set, which contacts a set of Graphite Pencils and a set of Coloured Pencils produced in collaboration with Tate.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/intro-to-sketching
Title: Introduction to Photography: Architecture
Date: 27 April 2024 at 11.30–15.0015 June 2024 at 11.30–15.00
Location: Tate Liverpool + RIBA North
Intro: Join us for this practical one-day workshop which invites you to explore and expand your photography in relation to the architecture in and around Tate Liverpool.We will draw inspiration from how artists and photographers from the Tate Collection have approached the built environment and introduce technical aspects of architectural photography before you apply the insights and techniques learnt to your own work.You will build up the introductory skills needed to fine-tune or get you started with architectural photography.These sessions are for people aged 16 and over. It is suitable for photographers at all levels, including beginners. Participants must bring their own digital camera or camera phone. A digital SLR camera is recommended, but not essential.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-liverpool/introduction-to-photography-architecture
Title: Jannis Kounellis, Untitled 1971 performed
Date: Every Saturday from 25 November 2023 – 6 July 2024
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: On Saturday afternoons, a cellist will perform Kounellis’ painting Untitled 1971, which features a brief passage from Bach’s St John Passion. These performances re-enact the original presentation of the work in 1971, when a cellist sat on a chair next to the painting at the Modern Art Agency gallery in Naples and interpreted the excerpt by playing it repeatedly over several minutes.For these performances, the cellist will play for about five minutes, then pause for around ten minutes and then start again.Kounellis’ early paintings of the 1960s were inspired by words and graphics found in street signs. He connected his practice with performance from the very start, thinking of the words and letters he painted as poems or scores to read out loud. He later introduced music in his paintings, installations and performances.Kounellis often used the theme of music to reconcile memory with the present moment. The work Untitled 1971, which remains on display with an empty chair during the rest of the week, represents both a record of the original performance and the potential for it to be reactivated. Even without the musical accompaniment, we can read the score in our minds or imagine the music being played.The score Kounellis reproduced on this painting is an excerpt from Bach’s oratorio St John Passion, originally composed in 1723–4. An oratorio is a musical composition for orchestra, choir and soloists, with lyrics based on the Bible or the lives of saints. Kounellis chose to reproduce a fragment of a musical piece with its own history, which can also play a role in an expanded understanding of the piece as activated by the public’s imagination.Greek-born artist Jannis Kounellis (1936–2017) moved to Rome in 1956, where he became a central figure of arte povera. Artists associated with this movement used ordinary materials of both natural and industrial origins, hoping to bring the experience of art closer to everyday life.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/jannis-kounellis-untitled-1971-performed
Title: Yoko Ono Exhibition Talk
Date: 26 March 2024 at 13.00–14.007 May 2024 at 13.00–14.0023 July 2024 at 13.00–14.00
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Yoko Ono is a leading figure in conceptual and performance art, film and music. Developing her practice in America, Japan and the UK, she is renowned for her activism, work for world peace, and environmental campaigns. Ideas are central to her art, often expressed in poetic, humorous and radical ways.Spanning more than seven decades, the exhibition focuses on key moments in Ono’s career, including her years in London from 1966 to 1971, where she met John Lennon.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/yoko-ono/yoko-ono-exhibition-talk
Title: Sculpture Workshop for Schools
Date: Ongoing
Location: Barbara Hepworth Museum and Sculpture Garden
Intro: Bring your group to a two-hour artist-led session beginning at the Barbara Hepworth Museum & Sculpture Garden.Working with an artist-educator in the museum and garden, participants will consider the making and meaning of her sculpture. The workshop will place Hepworth’s work in a local and international context, as well as explore her impact on contemporary practice.The session uses drawing activities in-situ and simple model-making activities. The session aims to create a deeper understanding of sculptural practice with the potential for participants to develop ideas after the workshop.Price includes drawing book, pencil and modelling materials. After the session your group may explore independently under teacher supervision.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/barbara-hepworth-museum-and-sculpture-garden/sculpture-workshop-schools
Title: Exhibition Tours for Schools
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate St Ives
Intro: A 60-minute session at either Tate St Ives or the Barbara Hepworth Museum & Sculpture Garden.These talks will take the group around the whole venue exploring a range of different artworks on display and encouraging students to think critically and independently about their responses.At Tate St Ives groups may choose to focus on Modern Conversations or the temporary exhibition.After the session your group may explore independently under teacher or group leader supervision.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-st-ives/exhibition-tours-schools
Title: Sketchbook Tours for Schools
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate St Ives
Intro: A 90-minute session at either Tate St Ives or the Hepworth Museum & Sculpture Garden, led by an artist educator.Group members will be given a sketchbook and pencil to keep and the artist will use other resources and drawing materials during the session.Participants will be encouraged to respond creatively using a range of recording techniques, with the emphasis on being able to develop work independently after the session.At Tate St Ives, groups may choose to focus on Modern Art and St Ives or the temporary exhibition.After the session your group may explore independently under adult or group leader supervision.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-st-ives/sketchbook-tours-schools
Title: Ways-In for Schools
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate St Ives
Intro: These 30-minute introductory talks are available at both Tate St Ives and the Barbara Hepworth Museum & Sculpture Garden.The guide will give an overview of the venue, select a small range of artworks to discuss, to give a flavour of the exhibition, and allow time for questions.At Tate St Ives the talk will focus on either Modern Art & St Ives or the temporary exhibition.After the session your group may explore independently under teacher or group leader supervision.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-st-ives/ways-in
Title: Exhibition Tour: Now You See Us
Women Artists in Britain: 1520 -1920
Date: 15 June 2024 at 10.15–11.153 August 2024 at 10.15–11.15
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Discover Women Artists from Tudor times to the First World War, such as Mary Beale, Angelica Kauffman, Elizabeth Butler and Laura Knight.Find out how they challenged what it meant to be a working woman of the time by going against society’s expectations – having commercial careers as artists and taking part in public exhibitions.Including over 150 works, the show dismantles stereotypes surrounding women artists in history, who were often thought of as amateurs.The exhibition sheds light on how these artists championed equal access to art training and academy membership, breaking boundaries and overcoming many obstacles to establish what it meant to be a woman in the art world.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/women-artists-in-britain-1520-1920/exhibition-tour-now-you-see-us
Title: Exhibition Tour
Expressionists: Kandinsky, Münter and the Blue Rider
Date: 11 May 2024 at 10.15–11.158 June 2024 at 10.15–11.1513 July 2024 at 10.15–11.1514 September 2024 at 10.15–11.1512 October 2024 at 10.15–11.15
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Join a one hour tour and enjoy an introduction to our exciting Expressionists exhibition which features paintings, sculpture, photography, performance and sound. With over 130 works brought together in the UK for the first time in 80 years.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/expressionists/expressionists-tour
Title: Exhibition Talk
Expressionists: Kandinsky, Münter and the Blue Rider
Date: 28 May 2024 at 13.00–14.0030 July 2024 at 13.00–14.0024 September 2024 at 13.00–14.0015 October 2024 at 13.00–14.00
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Take advantage of this one hour talk in the Starr Cinema, and learn about the artists and artworks in this landmark exhibition.Your ticket includes admission to the exhibition following the talk.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/expressionists/expressionists-talk
Title: Play Studio
Date: Every weekend and Fridays during term-time. Every day during school holidays
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Dress-up and place yourself in a Tate collection artwork. Explore a range of soundscapes, and play with sound and vision.Make something together inspired by the stories you’ve encountered in the galleries, or relax with under 5s next to the sand trays, collections of objects and books.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/play-studio
Title: Tate Modern
10 minute talks
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Modern
Intro: Every day at Tate Modern we have a selection of ten minute talks delivered by staff and volunteers.Each talk explores one artwork in the gallery for around 10 minutes. Visitors could learn more about the artists’ creative process and the inspiration behind their work.Ten minute talks are an opportunity for visitors to listen to Tate staff bringing their favourite artworks to life; sharing their personal feelings and relationship with different pieces in the collection.For a short period each day, the talks encourage visitors to pause, reflect and enjoy ‘slow looking’ – spending time with an artwork to really get to know it.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-modern/10-minute-talks
Title: Tate Britain
10 minute talks
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: Every day at Tate Britain we have a selection of ten minute talks delivered by staff and volunteers.Each talk explores one artwork in the gallery for around 10 minutes. Visitors could learn more about the artists’ creative process and the inspiration behind their work.Ten minute talks are an opportunity for visitors to listen to Tate staff bringing their favourite artworks to life; sharing their personal feelings and relationship with different pieces in the collection.For a short period each day, the talks encourage visitors to pause, reflect and enjoy ‘slow looking’ – spending time with an artwork to really get to know it.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/whats-on/tate-britain/10-minute-talks
Title: ARTIST ROOMS: Lawrence Weiner
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Modern - Natalie Bell Building Level 4
Intro: In the late 1960s, Lawrence Weiner contributed to the development of conceptual art. The movement proposed that ideas, or concepts, could be experienced as artworks even without a physical form. In 1969, Weiner summarised the principles underlying his art in what he called his ‘Declaration of Intent’:
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-modern/display/artist-rooms-lawrence-weiner
Title: Andy Holden: A Natural History of Nest Building
Date: Until 6 May 2024
Location: Tate St Ives
Intro: A Natural History of Nest Building 2017 is a three-screen video installation which draws on the traditions of natural history television programmes. The thirty-minute film is narrated by Andy Holden and his father, ornithologist Peter Holden. It is divided into three chapters, Nest Type, Nest Site and Material, concluding with a post-script on the bowerbird, the only known bird to make a structure for display only.Throughout the film, Holden and his father adopt different positions on the significance of birds’ nests. His father considers them from a scientific perspective, reflecting on inherited traits and learned behaviours. Holden examines them as sculptural objects, suggesting comparisons between nest building and making art. The scripted exchange combines ironic humour with profound conversations on the nature of creativity and the parental bond.The work began as a series of performative lectures given by Holden and his father at museums, festivals and universities across the UK. Posters designed for these events are shown alongside the video work in this one room display, alongside childhood photographs of Holden taken by his father and original or re-made specimens from his collection of nests.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-st-ives/display/andy-holden-a-natural-history-of-nest-building
Title: Document or Artwork?
Date: Until 9 June 2024
Location: Tate Britain
Intro: An artist's book is conceived by an artist as a work of art, though it may not be physically made by them. It is usually cheaply produced, so that many copies can be made and widely circulated. In this way artists' books are different from many other kinds of artwork, in which uniqueness is an important factor.Since the 1950s, artists have used books to engage with audiences directly. Often they have asked readers and viewers to reflect not only on the publication itself, but also on the way it has come into their hands. How the books are distributed can raise questions about ownership and art as commodity. Artists' books also have a complex status as both artworks in themselves and documentation. Their place within the museum – and art history more widely – is not fixed.In recent decades, artists’ publications have explored the entangled, evolving relationship between printed books and digital media. Technology has transformed how artists make and distribute publications, and how they understand them. Amid the explosion of digital content, what is a book today and what can it do?Tate Library holds a large, international collection of artists’ books, together with a wide range of other art publications. Displayed around the room are treasures from Tate Archive, documenting key developments in British art across the 20th century. Tate Archive contains over 20 million pieces, and is now the world’s largest archive for British art.To make an appointment to view Library and Archive items in the Hyman Kreitman Reading Rooms at Tate Britain email reading.rooms@tate.org.uk.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-britain/display/document-or-artwork
Title: ARTIST ROOMS: Jannis Kounellis
Date: Until June 2024
Location: Tate Modern - Blavatnik Building Level 4
Intro: Jannis Kounellis (1936–2017) was born in the Greek port city of Piraeus, but lived and worked in Rome from 1956. His early paintings were inspired by words and graphics found in street signs, which he gradually reduced to letters, numbers and basic symbols arranged over plain backgrounds. Though he soon expanded his practice to include performance and sculpture, he considered himself primarily a painter. Whether making pictures or using materials and objects that share the same space as us as viewers, he aimed to create powerful images, mundane and strange at the same time.In the late 1960s Kounellis became a key figure of the Italian arte povera (‘poor art’) movement. Artists associated with arte povera used ordinary materials of both natural and industrial origins and hoped to bring the experience of art closer to everyday life. At the time, Italy was undergoing a period of rapid social change, torn between industrial and agrarian life, tradition and innovation, antiquity and modernity. Kounellis’s works express this clash of values by bringing together contrasting elements such as raw wood and steel beams, or strings of colourful glass hanging next to a mound of black coal.Many of Kounellis’s installations subtly change the architecture of the gallery, like the stones blocking the passage between two rooms. Some suggest the presence and actions of people: in a work bringing together painting, sculpture and performance, an empty chair lies waiting for a cellist to play a painted musical score. Other works carry strong associations both sensorial and cultural, like those including bells and coffee beans. These objects have a rich history, evoking sounds and smells familiar to many.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-modern/display/jannis-kounellis
Title: Historic and Early Modern British Art
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Britain - Main Floor
Intro: These rooms start with the oldest artworks in Tate's collection. From the Tudor courts, war and revolution to the fight for women's suffrage, discover how art reflects nation-defining moments in our history. Look out for works by Joan Carlile and Mary Beale, two of the first women artists working in Britain as early as 1650. See familiar favourites by William Blake, John Singer Sargent, Gwen John, Vanessa Bell and more. Continue your journey with Modern and Contemporary British Art.John William Waterhouse The Lady of Shalott is on loan to Falmouth Art Gallery and will return in October 2023.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-britain/display/historic-early-modern-british-art
Title: Barbara Hepworth
Date: Ongoing
Location: Barbara Hepworth Museum and Sculpture Garden
Intro: Barbara Hepworth first came to live in Cornwall with her husband Ben Nicholson and their young family at the outbreak of war in 1939. She lived and worked in Trewyn studios – now the Barbara Hepworth Museum – from 1949 until her death in 1975.Following her wish to establish her home and studio as a museum of her work, Trewyn Studio and much of the artist’s work remaining there was given to the nation and placed in the care of the Tate Gallery in 1980.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-st-ives/barbara-hepworth-museum-and-sculpture-garden/display/barbara-hepworth
Title: Modern Conversations
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate St Ives - Level 2, Level 3
Intro: What does it mean to be modern? Modern Conversations explores this question through 100 years of British and international art.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-st-ives/display/modern-conversations
Title: In the Studio
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Modern - Natalie Bell Building Level 2  East
Intro: The close engagement between the individual and the work of art, whether an artist’s process of making or a viewer’s experience of looking, is the focus for this display.It includes depictions of artists’ studios as well as abstract works that draw attention to the complex nature of perception.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-modern/display/in-the-studio
Title: Materials and Objects
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Modern - Natalie Bell Building Level 4  West
Intro: The Materials and Objects display looks at the inventive ways in which artists around the world use diverse materials.Increasingly over the last hundred years, artists have challenged the idea that certain materials are unsuitable for art. Some employ industrial materials and methods, while others adapt craft skills, or put the throwaway products of consumer society to new uses.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-modern/display/materials-and-objects
Title: Media Networks
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Modern - Natalie Bell Building Level 4  East
Intro: Look at some of the ways in which artists over the past hundred years have responded to the impact of mass media and the ever-changing technologies that shape our world.Including a diverse range of techniques and materials – from posters and paint to analogue and digital technology – the display raises questions around feminism, consumerism and the cult of celebrity.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-modern/display/media-networks
Title: Performer and Participant
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Modern - Blavatnik Building Level 3
Intro: Action – both individual and collective – is at the heart of the works within this display. Sometimes the work takes the form of a proposal for an action or the record of a past event or performance. Elsewhere viewers are invited to activate an artwork using their bodies. Artworks shown here include a mix of intimate individual acts, choreographed actions in which participants are directed by an artist and political activism.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-modern/display/performer-and-participant
Title: Mark Rothko: The Seagram Murals
Date: 25 May 2024 – 5 January 2025
Location: Tate St Ives
Intro: For the first time, five of Mark Rothko’s Seagram murals are being shown at Tate St Ives.In 1958, the American artist Mark Rothko accepted a commission to produce a series of large paintings for the Four Seasons restaurant in the Seagram Building, New York. He was interested in having a permanent setting where the works could always be shown as a group and in an immersive environment. He constructed a scaffold in his studio to match the exact dimensions of the restaurant and set to work.In the Summer of 1959, Rothko took a break from working on the murals to travel to Europe with his family. He visited Cornwall, invited by artist Peter Lanyon, and met many like-minded artists including Alan Davie, Paul Feiler and Terry Frost, some who feature in Tate St Ives’s current displays.Upon his return to the United States, Rothko decided that the restaurant would not be an appropriate location for his painting. He donated nine of them to Tate in 1969.The Seagram murals were a significant departure for Rothko. The intense, bright colours of his earlier paintings gave way to maroon, dark red and black. Rothko wished to create a deep connection between the viewer and his paintings:I am interested only in expressing basic human emotions – tragedy, ecstasy, doomThis one-room display includes five of the nine murals in the Tate collection. Presented, as the artist intended, in a single space with reduced light, these works offer a meditative conclusion to the exhibitions and displays at Tate St Ives.Mark Rothko (1903–1970) was born in Russia. He emigrated to the US in 1913, and from 1925 lived and worked in New York.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-st-ives/display/mark-rothko-the-seagram-murals
Title: ARTIST ROOMS: Ian Hamilton Finlay
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Modern - Natalie Bell Building Level 4
Intro: Scottish artist Ian Hamilton Finlay created the poem-objects in this room between the 1960s and 1990s. They focus on maritime themes like boats, fishing and seafaring. The sea was a recurring source of inspiration for Finlay. He was born in The Bahamas and lived for a brief but formative time on Rousay, one of the Scottish Orkney Islands. Even when he moved to the countryside near Edinburgh he was never far from a body of water - such as the ponds in his celebrated garden, Little Sparta, in Dunsyre.Finlay began his career publishing plays, short stories and poems in the mid-1950s. His early works were important contributions to the development of concrete poetry, a form of visual poetry where the arrangement of words and letters is as significant as their meaning. Finlay published his first collection of concrete poems in 1963, and at the end of the 1960s he began making sculptures. The works on display here illustrate these two practices. They generate poetic associations by juxtaposing words, images and materials.Finlay often collaborated with other artists and craftspeople, who he always credited in his publications and exhibitions. In 1961, he founded the Wild Hawthorn Press. This publishing company produced versions of many of Finlay’s artworks across a range of mediums. Included here are a series of screenprinted ceramic tiles, suggesting ways to experience visual poetry in a domestic environment. The use of tiles in kitchen and bathroom ‘wet rooms’ also playfully chimes with their maritime subject matter.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-modern/display/artist-rooms-ian-hamilton-finlay
Title: Start Display
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Modern - Natalie Bell Building Level 2
Intro: This display introduces you to some of the best-loved artworks in the Tate collection. Linked by themes such as colour, these rooms with highlight artworks from a range of countries, cultures and times.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-modern/display/start-display
Title: Martin Creed
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Modern - Natalie Bell Building Level 4
Intro: Originally made for the entrance of Tate Britain, this neon wall sculpture presents a text in the form of an equation. While the use of an equation suggests a definitive formula, Creed’s words remains ambiguous. It has been interpreted as both a positive statement about the inclusiveness of art, and a negative statement about art’s irrelevance.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-modern/display/martin-creed
Title: ARTIST ROOMS: Art and Text
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Modern - Natalie Bell Building Level 4
Intro: People have used language as an expressive art form for millennia, from oral tradition and the spoken word, to illuminated manuscripts and printed publications. This room brings together works produced in the last 50 years in Europe and the USA. They demonstrate different ways of engaging with text and its role as a form of communication.By the late 1960s, text was the primary focus of many visual artworks. Artists associated with movements like cubism and Pop Art had long incorporated words found in advertising and mass media. Those interested in concrete poetry (such as Ian Hamilton Finlay) and conceptual art (such as Lawrence Weiner) often made artworks from text alone.Many of the works in this room respond directly to the proliferation of language and text in the information age, particularly in relation to consumerism. For some artists, text provides a unique way to translate and materialise their ideas. Others reflect on language as an expression of human culture, capable of transmitting ideas, influencing behaviour and memorialising people and events.Some of these artists focus on the act of writing as a form of making: inscribing, painting, carving, scribbling, typing or embroidering words as personal, meditative and poetic acts. For many, text-based works are a way to actively engage viewers. The reader is invited to imagine what is only described, and to project their own memories and associations onto the artist’s words.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-modern/display/artist-rooms-art-and-text
Title: Nathan Coley
We Must Cultivate Our Garden
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Modern - North Landscape
Intro: The electric lightbulbs of this sculpture spell out a phrase that is both a spectacle and a public statement. Standing in the landscape outside Tate Modern opposite the high-rise buildings in the City of London, the words seem to be urging us to act.Nathan Coley takes his words from the satirical novella Candide (1759) by the French writer and philosopher Voltaire (1694–1778). Voltaire’s story of a young man who travels the world in search of happiness concludes with this ambiguous sentence. Coley has commented: ‘I think my work has a sense of politics and a sense of the world and also a kind of sense of humour.’This display is supported by Dasha and William Shenkman in memory of their mother Belle Shenkman (1928 –1995) a passionate patron, and promoter of the arts, and by Tate Enterprises.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-modern/display/nathan-coley-we-must-cultivate-our-garden
Title: Artist and Society
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Modern - Natalie Bell Building Level 2  West
Intro: This wing is concerned with the ways in which artists engage with social ideals and historical realities. Though some artists associated modernism with a utopian vision, art has also provided a mirror to contemporary society, sometimes raising awareness about urgent issues or arguing for change. Whether through traditional media or moving images, abstraction or figuration, militancy or detached observation, all the artworks in this wing highlight aspects of the social reality in which they were made, and try to generate a reaction and convey a more or less explicit message to their publics.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-modern/display/artist-and-society
Title: The Tanks
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Modern - Level 0
Intro: The Tanks provide a permanent gallery for live art, performances and film and video work from the Tate collection. There is also a programme of new commissions of works made for the specific spaces.The Tanks were previously used to store oil when the gallery was a power station. These huge circular spaces in the foundations of the Blavatnik Building have kept their rough, industrial feel to now house new art. No longer generating electricity, the Tanks generate ideas, creative energy and new possibilities for artists and audiences. These raw, industrial, subterranean spaces, each measuring over thirty metres across and seven metres high are the world’s first museum galleries permanently dedicated to exhibiting live art, performance, installation and film.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-modern/display/tanks
Title: JMW Turner
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Britain - Main Floor Clore Gallery
Intro: Tate Britain is home to the largest collection of works by Joseph Mallord William Turner (1775–1851).Described as the ‘father of modern art,’ Turner shocked with his unique brushwork and use of colour. His portrayals of the modern world were unlike any seen before. As one of the country’s greatest painters, he fittingly lends his name to the contemporary Turner Prize.See Turner’s art free in these galleries.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-britain/display/jmw-turner
Title: Modern and Contemporary British Art
Date: Ongoing
Location: Tate Britain - Main Floor
Intro: Explore works that changed art as we know it from the Second World War to now. These rooms reflect an explosion of new ideas, styles and voices that transformed British art and society. Look out for paintings, sculptures, installations and photography by modern icons like Barbara Hepworth and Francis Bacon as well as contemporary works by Tracey Emin, Zineb Sedira and many more.Find out what came before with Historic and Early Modern British Art.
URL:| https://www.tate.org.uk/visit/tate-britain/display/modern-and-contemporary-british-art
